

Fibroblast ECM scaffolds sheets: Background Info




The field of tissue engineering has emerged as an exciting and
multidisciplinary area of study aimed at developing biological substitutes to
restore, replace or regenerate defective tissues [1]. A central component in
this field involves the use of biomaterials that can be developed into tissue
scaffolds or scaffolds that can serve as structural supports for cell
attachment and subsequent tissue development [2]. Most cells within the human
body reside in a solid matrix, called the extracellular matrix (ECM) which
serves a wide range of functions including providing structural support and a
physical environment for cells to attach and grow in, as well as providing
biophysical cues to the cells that reside in the ECM [3].

Several scaffolds including Zein, pectin and gelatex have been evaluated in
the DoE project team, with a primary focus on assessing adhesion, adhesion
maintenance and subsequent differentiation of MuSC on these scaffolds, few of
which have shown promising results. For example MuSC seeded onto
decellularized parsley and electrospun PDLG/pectin scaffolds displayed myotube
formation (see report), whereas nanofibrous gelatin and Zein scaffolds
exhibited relatively high scaffold confluence even after 14 days of
differentiation in ACF conditions [4][5]. Despite this a continued focus of
the DoE project team involves scouting out new scaffolds and evaluating them
within the DoE pipeline.  
  
The aim of these experiments is to assess whether it is possible to obtain
viable ECM scaffold sheets, which will be derived from fibroblast cells grown
in different culture conditions. This avenue is being pursued because
fibroblasts synthesise and secrete several components of the ECM, including
structural proteins such as collagen, adhesive proteins and space filling
glycosaminoglycans, which can potentially enhance the adherence of MuSC [6].
Ultimately the purpose of developing these fibroblasts ECM scaffolds is to
evaluate whether sheep MuSC can adhere, maintain adherence and differentiate
on these ECM scaffolds. However before we begin to assess these scaffolds in
the DoE pipeline with MuSC it is first necessary to determine whether we can
achieve fibroblasts sheets of sufficient thickness and structural integrity to
serve as a scaffold that can have MuSC seeded onto them. Therefore the first
part of this milestone will be focused entirely on trailing a multitude of
culture conditions, including different growth surface coatings, media
supplementations, and seeding environments and gauging which combination
offers the the most viable ECM scaffolds. After culturing the fibroblast cells
in the different conditions (see experimental plan) for a period of
approximately 2 weeks the cell sheets will be harvested using a freeze-thaw
cycle previously described in the literature [7]. Following this process any
viable ECM cell sheet will then be used as a scaffold.



 References:

[1] https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fbioe.2017.00040/full

[2] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2587658/

[3] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2995612/

[4] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/Njk1LjV8MTA2MzE3LzUzNS9UcmVlTm9kZS8zMzMwMzMxNzA3fDE3NjUuNQ==

[5] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NjkxLjZ8MTA2MzE3LzUzMi9UcmVlTm9kZS8yMjIzODcwODMwfDE3NTUuNg==

[6] https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphar.2014.00123/full

[7]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24866751/#:~:text=The%20ECM%20scaffolds%20produced%20from,supports%20for%20tissue%2Dengineered%20constructs.




Live/Dead Staining: Background Info




Live/Dead assay staining is a mixture of fluorescent dyes that differentially
label live and dead cells in a single culture system [1]. In the continuation
of this experiment we will be seeding live MuSC onto fibroblast ECM scaffolds
sheets that will be freeze thawed and consequently killed (decellularized) in
the process. Consequently, in order to visualise the MuSCs on the fibroblast
ECM sheets we will need to perform staining methods which are capable of
distinguishing between the two cell types. One approach to accomplish this
involves the use of the anti-fibroblast antibody, clone TE-7, or the
intermediate filament antibody marker Vimentin, both of which can be used as a
marker of fibroblast cell presence, in conjunction with anti-MyoD antibodies
for the detection of MuSC [2][3][4]. However, due to complications arising
from fibroblast staining, predominantly the lack of an observable signal [5],
and the fact that samples need to be fixed prior to immunofluorescent staining
we require an independent method capable of differentiating between MuSC and
fibroblast cells in continuous culture, hence live/dead staining.  

Live/Dead Staining

In relation to the cell sheet samples which are to be exposed to multiple
cycles of freeze-thaw prior to MuSC cell seeding, these scaffolds should
theoretically contain dead fibroblast cells, as the freeze-thaw process
damages the cell membrane resulting in apoptosis. Subsequently, by using a
stain which preferentially stains for only living cells we should be able to
distinguish between the living MuSC cells seeded onto the scaffolds, and the
dead fibroblast cells within the scaffold. An example of a live cell stain we
currently have in-house is the CellTracker Green CMFDA cell-permeant dye.
CMFDA is a fluorescent dye well suited for monitoring cell movement or
location. CMFDA freely passes through cell membranes into cells where it is
transformed into a cell-impermeant, fluorescent product and its low
cytotoxicity does not affect viability or proliferation of cells and can
therefore be used during continuous culture [6].

References:

[1] https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fmicb.2019.00801/full

[2] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2326106/

[3] https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10741-018-9720-1

[4] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3838901/

[5] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/OTk0LjV8MTA2MzE3Lzc2NS0zNzk4L1RyZWVOb2RlLzMzNjA3MDc4NzR8MjUyNC41

[6]
https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/C2925?ef_id=CjwKCAjwzruGBhBAEiwAUqMR8P2r1JidZgvmFU5J7SSFbY8oDrbEVa7jyV1AhW7IgZwExeLlXX1DPhoCaLIQAvD_BwE:G:s&s_kwcid=AL!3652!3!447292198736!b!!g!!&cid=bid_pca_iva_r01_co_cp1359_pjt0000_bid00000_0se_gaw_dy_pur_con&gclid=CjwKCAjwzruGBhBAEiwAUqMR8P2r1JidZgvmFU5J7SSFbY8oDrbEVa7jyV1AhW7IgZwExeLlXX1DPhoCaLIQAvD_BwE#/C2925?ef_id=CjwKCAjwzruGBhBAEiwAUqMR8P2r1JidZgvmFU5J7SSFbY8oDrbEVa7jyV1AhW7IgZwExeLlXX1DPhoCaLIQAvD_BwE:G:s&s_kwcid=AL!3652!3!447292198736!b!!g!!&cid=bid_pca_iva_r01_co_cp1359_pjt0000_bid00000_0se_gaw_dy_pur_con&gclid=CjwKCAjwzruGBhBAEiwAUqMR8P2r1JidZgvmFU5J7SSFbY8oDrbEVa7jyV1AhW7IgZwExeLlXX1DPhoCaLIQAvD_BwE


