

Draw (Harvest): TT/CB/AnV

Cell suspension removed from bag in ~1hr

Centrifuging started at: 11:15

Harvesting finished at:

130L of media was pumped out of the STR200 into a palletank bag. This will
then be connected to the centrifuge to harvest the cells. The STR200 weight
had to be put into simulation mode so that it did not alarm and shut down we
taken down below 50kg. The large floor scale was used to measure the amount of
cell suspension harvested from the STR200 because we could not use the STR200
scale.

The Centrifuge was cleaned out with 70% ethanol. At the conclusion of this
rinse we notice chunks coming out of the second waste tube (the one connected
to the bottle of the bowl). It was then noticed that there were maggot like
organisms in this debris.

We cannot access this cavity to clean it properly because the screw holding
the bowl down is rusted. So to clean it we continued to run ethanol through
until there was minimal debris coming out. We then ran boiling water through
it multiple times after.

Centrifuge spun at 70rpm to give a flow rate of 500mL/min. (Last time we did
1L/min and this still gave us very cloudy waste. Yesterdays lab centrifuge
test also suggest we are losing cells with this centrifuge so we are trying a
slower speed to see if this works better)

A sample of waste media was taken at the start of the centrifugation and then
again at various points throughout the process to see how clear it was (if
this was cloudy is would suggest lots of cells were being through out into the
waste).  
  
Important notes for next time:

  * The tubing going through the pump needs to be thicker than normal silicone tubing 
  * A triclover clamp can be used to connect the larger tubing to the small tubing
  * The centrifuge bowl needs to be cleaned out BEFORE using 
  * After using the centrifuge do the normal clean, then plug off the end of the heavy waste tube and fill this with detergent/cavicide and boiling water. Leave overnight and clean out the next day.




scale tared with correct empty tube on it then pellet weighed.

weights:

lab centrifuge, light green cap (spun at 1000g for 10min)

51.1

12.1

54.3

3.9

4.6

lab centrifuge, dark blue lid (39.6g tube)

100.9

91.2

  

from outside centrifuge

170.26




Fill: CB/AnV

Filling started at: 10:30

Filling finished at:

Media being pumped in: MIX-12772

Media Type: 3:1 RPMI/HyCell

Media was pumped into the STR200 at a rate of 12 rpm as this kept the input
temp below 41'C and the recorded temp above 36'C. The STR200 was kept in
simulation mode (weight only) until the bottom impeller could not be seen
anymore, the scale was then turned back on.

rpm was slowly ramped up as the volume in the STR200 got larger. At 93L it was
increased to 18rpm

media filled back up to 180L in the STR200

When making this media: we used a 2inch filter to filter 200L and it became
VERY slow during the last 50L. Next time we should used a 4inch filter instead
and only use 2inch for volumes equal to or less than 150L


Growth Factors


1 L MilliQ water  
IGF: M12789: A - 140 mL  
EGF: M12759 - 28 mL  
Antifoam: M6141 - 14 mL


