

## Completed by:


Aim/Purpose


To assess whether the DOLLY12 cells share similar growth rates between E125 vs
50mL bioreactor tubes.


Hypothesis


That DOLLY12 cells grown in 50mL bioreactor tube will share similar growth
rates compared to E125 vessels.


Technical Gap


To identify which animal component free (ACF) media formulations support
muscle stem cell growth in microcarrier suspension cultures we require a high
throughput screening system. Rapid screening of ACF medias will allow us to
more easily identify media formulations that support strong proliferation in
these suspension cultures. A high throughput and cost effective media
screening pipeline ideally relies on using small volumes of ACF media and
small numbers of cells per culture. To date a majority of our microcarrier
experiments have relied upon using E125 flasks which have a minimum working
volume of 30mL and require between 1.7-3 million cells for seeding. We want to
first identify whether we can achieve comparable results in cell growth rates
by downsizing our culture vessels from E125 flasks to 50mL bioreactor tubes.
By using these tubes we can reduce our media and cell requirements by two
thirds (10mL media and 0.566-1 million cells to seed).


Method/Procedure
DateTaskAdditional Notes  
2-JuneEquilibrate 3xE125 flasks and 3x50mL bioreactor tubes with Cytodex 1
microcarriers. Equilibrate all vessels with 4.5mg/mL of cytodex 1
microcarriers (19,500 carriers/mL), from 20g/L stock.  
  
30mL for E125 flasks, 10mL for 50mL tubes  
  
DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1xP/S + 10uM p38i growth media.  
  
3-JuneSeed all 6 vessels with DOLLY12 cells Seed each vessel at 68250cells/mL
(3.5 cells per carrier)  
  
Shake 50mL tubes at 250rpm, Shake E125 flasks at 110rpm. (~0.06W/kg energy
dissipation rate)  
4-JuneSample, Stain and Image samples from each vessel, 3x20uL from each
vessel. Use the Zaber for imaging under PHASE and DAPI channels, 1 image on
centre of each well. Process using MIA captures 'uCarrier cell count' tool.  
  
Mix samples with dPBS containing 1% w/v poloxamer 188 and 20uL/mL of Hoechst
33342 and wait 20 minutes before imaging.  
  
Take whole well images as well to confirm carrier numbers in each vessel.  
5-JuneNo action  
  
6-June50% Feed all vessels Growth media feed, same as seed media.  
  
5mL for 50mL tubes, 15mL for E125 flasks.  
7-10 JuneSample, Stain and Image samples from each vessel, 3x20uL from each
vessel.  
Use the Zaber for imaging under PHASE and DAPI channels, 1 image on centre of
each well. Process using MIA captures 'uCarrier cell count' tool.  
  
Mix samples with dPBS containing 1% w/v poloxamer 188 and 20uL/mL of Hoechst
33342 and wait 20 minutes before imaging.  
  
10-JuneAnalyse proliferation data to determine doubling rates.  


