Brief Background


Previously we attempted to grow cells on microcarriers in serum free media
formulations using E125 flasks ( see the following experiment https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/ODUyLjgwMDAwMDAwMDAwMDF8MTA2MzE3LzY1Ni9UcmVlTm9kZS8yODMyMzI2NzYwfDIxNjQuNzk5OTk5OTk5OTk5Nw==)  
  
During this experiment we identified that none of our ACF media formulations
tested allowed the cells to proliferate in microcarrier suspension relative to
the serum control. We also found that the E125 flask format would not be
suitable for higher throughput testing of serum free media formulations since
these flasks require significant cell requirements for seeding (2.7-3 x10^6
cells) and large volumes of serum free media (30mL per flask). To improve our
throughput in testing ACF media conditions with microcarrier suspension
cultures we decided to try and scale down our culture sizes to 50mL spin
tubes. In this experiment we wanted to determine whether culturing cells in
smaller vessels (50mL spin tubes) would yield the same growth trends we have
observed when growing cells in E125 flasks.  
  
To do this we grew 6 suspension cultures over 6 days.

  * 3x 50mL spin tubes with 10mL working volumes shaking at 250rpm. 
  * 3x E125 flasks with 30mL working volumes shaking at 120rpm.

The following variables were kept constant between all cultures.

  * Cytodex 1 microcarrier densities in each flask were 4.5mg/mL
  * DOLLY12 cells were seeded into each vessel at a concentration of 3.5 cells per microcarrier. 
  * Cultures were seeded using continuous shaking once cells were added. 
  * Cultures were grown in DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1xP/S + 10uM p38i 
  * Each culture was given a 50% media change every 48 hours after seeding. 

Cultures were sampled and stained using Hoechst 33342 at various time points
during the experiment, these stained carriers were imaged using our Zaber and
the images were processed using FIJI to obtain cell estimates per carrier.


Key Results


  
  



Figure 1: DOLLY12 Expansion on cytodex 1 microcarriers in E125 flasks vs 50mL
shake tubes. Microcarriers were removed from each vessel (n=130-201) at
various times after seeding, stained with Hoechst 33342, imaged and quantified
using FIJI. Outliers were removed using Rout's method (Q = 1%) and average
values were determined for each flask type (n=3). A two way ANOVA with
multiple comparisons was performed showing a significant interaction between
time and vessel type on cell number at Day 6 of proliferation only (***, P =
0.0008).

Figure 2: Average dead cells on microcarriers in E125 vs 50mL shake tubes.
Microcarriers were removed from each vessel after 7 days in culture (n=24-41),
stained with PI (1mg/mL), imaged and quantified using FIJI. Outliers were
removed using Rout's method (Q = 1%) and average counts for each flask type
were determined (n=3). An unpaired T test was performed and no statistical
significance was found in cell death between vessel types.  



Figure 3: Cell morphology present on a cytodex 1 microcarrier in a 50mL shake
tube 24h after seeding.

 Figure 4: Cell morphology present on a cytodex 1 microcarrier in an E125
flask 24h after seeding.

  

  

Key results from this experiment:

  * DOLLY12 Cell morphology on microcarriers differed significantly when grown in 50mL spin tubes vs E125 flasks.
  * Cell death was higher on microcarriers in 50mL spin tube cultures compared to E125 cultures though this was not significant. 
  * Vessel type had no interaction on cell number before Day 6 of proliferation. 
  * Time had a significant impact on cell number in all cultures regardless of vessel type. 
  * There was a significant interaction between time vessel type on cell number only at Day 6 of proliferation. 

  

  

  


Discussion


In order for us to be able to rapidly optimize our serum free media
formulations for suspension cultures containing different species or cell
types we will require a low cost, high throughput culturing pipeline. This
experiment was our first step towards obtaining this pipeline as we attempted
to reduce the size of our suspension cultures without introducing variability
in growth trends when compared to our gold standard E125 flask culturing
practices. The results of this experiment showed us that DOLLY12 cells were
indeed able to grow on cytodex 1 microcarriers in the 50mL shake tubes over 5
days with a growth trend that was similar to our E125 flasks.

However we also noted that there was a noticeable difference in cell
morphology on cytodex 1 microcarriers in the shake tubes vs the E125 flasks
from Day 1 though to Day 6 of culture (see figures 3 and 4). By Day 6 the
growth trends were no longer aligned, with a significant difference in cell
number per carrier identified between groups (Figure 1). Coupled with the
significant differences in cell morphology observed between the two vessel
types we decided to investigate whether there was higher incidence in cell
death in the 50mL shake tubes which may account for this difference in cell
number by Day 6. PI staining showed that there was a slightly higher increase
in dead cells present on microcarriers in the 50mL shake tubes however this
difference was not significant when compared with carriers from the E125
group. As no Hoechst 33342 staining was done on Day 7 it was impossible to
determine what percentage of cells present on microcarriers in each group were
PI+.




Conclusion


Our goal in this study was to scale down our suspension cultures while keeping
cell behaviour consistent with what has been witnessed in E flask cultures. We
were able to obtain similarities in growth trends between vessel types for the
first 5 days of culture. However the significant difference in cell morphology
and elevated cell death seen in 50mL shake tubes after 6 days of culturing
seen on carriers in each vessel type remains a concern. We cannot be certain
that DOLLY12 cell behave similarly in 50mL shake tubes as they do in E125
vessels.


Future Directions


We should replicate the growth trends we observed over the first 5 days and
investigate whether we can improve cell morphology to align with what is seen
in our gold standard E flask cultures. Both of these steps will give us
greater confidence in applying any learnings from the 50mL shake tube cultures
to larger suspension cultures.  
  
A new experiment has been kicked off to address these concerns (https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjU0Mi44fDEwNjMxNy8xOTU2L1RyZWVOb2RlLzMzNTYyMjMwNDB8NjQ1NC43OTk5OTk5OTk5OTk=)


