

The use of Vitamin C to increase fibroblast aggregates:

Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, has previously been shown to increase
fibroblast adhesion. After fibroblasts were treated for 30 minutes with
Vitamin C, fibroblast adhesion to fibronectin increased by 4.7x [1]. There is
also evidence to that Vitamin C aids in the production of collagen by
fibroblasts. Specifically, Vitamin C acts as a co-factor for the proline and
lysine hydroxylases that stabilise the collagen molecule tertiary structure
and also promotes collagen gene expression. Given that collagen formation int
he skin is mostly carried out by fibroblasts in the dermis, this is why
Vitamin C is thought to be great for skin health and is a component of so many
moisurisers and soaps. In the absence of vitamin C, there is degreased total
synthesis of and decreased crosslinking of collegen. There is also evidence
that Vitamin C increases proliferation and migration of fibroblasts [2].

Based on this previous research, it appears that adding vitamin C could
increase fibroblast collagen production which could be excellent for
facilitating MuSC adherence to scaffolds. We should explore this further in
our co-culture experiments.  
  
In addition, if we are attempting to generate aggregates of fibroblasts for
generation of fibroblast scaffolds for for generation of cell paste for meat
products, then incorporating Vitamin C could increase the collagen
concentration of a fibroblast pellet and affect its texture. In addition, it
could increase proliferation of the fibroblasts or make it more likely that
they will bind together. A concentration of 50ug/mL of Vitamin C has been used
to affect fibroblast collagen production previously and may be a good
concentration to start with [3].

  

The use of TGFb to increase fibroblast aggregation

TGFb is an important mediator of fibrosis (in which connective tissue replaces
normal tissue to the extent that it goes unchecked, leading to considerable
tissue remodelling and the formation of permanent scar tissue). It does so in
part by stimulating the synthesis and assembly of matrix proteins such as
fibronectin and collagen. TGFb also promotes formation of myofibroblasts,
which are activated fibroblasts responsible for the generation of contractile
force [4]. TGFb has also been demonstrated to promote the proliferation,
collagen formation, and differentiation of dermal fibroblasts. It manages this
through up-regulation of miR-21 and the PTEN/AKT signalling pathway [5]. TGFb
is typically produced by immune cells such as macrophages and it stimulates
extracellular matrix production (i.e. collagens and fibronectin) in
fibroblasts directly [6].

Based on this previous research, it seems that TGFb is an additional means by
which we can activate fibroblasts and produce greater amounts of cells as well
as increased extracellular matrix proteins such as collagen and fibronectin.
This could be very useful for facilitating increased adherence of MuSCs to
scaffolds by way of fibroblastic matrix proteins. It also could facilitate
increased adherence and formation of fibroblast aggregates. 10ng/mL is a
concentration of TGFb that has been shown to induce increased collagen
production in fibroblasts [7], so that may be a good place to start
concentration-wise.

  

1\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17325628/

2\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5579659/  
3\. https://rupress.org/jcb/article-pdf/34/1/83/1068361/83.pdf

4\. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/art.10621

5\. https://www.nature.com/articles/srep32231

6\. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-74179-6

7.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5597442/  
  


