

This is where you can get your free 30 day JMP trial. Note you can only do
this once per device and per email address.  
  
https://www.jmp.com/en_gb/offers/jmp-free-
trial.html?gclid=CjwKCAjwwCGBhALEiwAQzW[…]rzP8wLr0EabUYqrFQ2yHJKEe3Z_BbY1wV3cfdL3Wq3KzZQ9a0xoCXm4QAvD_BwE

JMP set-up guide to use Vows VPN version (can use remotely):

https://www.notion.so/vow/JMP-Setup-Guide-a6aaec4075ed4022bbcb21b711036ba0

  




Scaffold Resources:

https://www.notion.so/vow/Potential-scaffold-options-for-Q3-4-from-external-
providers-8642722c7de64a2e956ce1aa9d9caae2

  




How to guide on setting up and analysing a full-factorial screening experiment
in JMP:  
  
https://www.notion.so/vow/JMP-Guide-to-experiment-set-up-and-analysis-full-
factorial-82004a313a984d81b90b81fe318fe250




Scaffold experiment timeline template:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h2DBmkGw2FEY-
fyBSewZ4dVcpv9KFDbvrDt_32LMyLY/edit




Cell demand calculator for scaffold experiments:

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/159C45Zq3lykCb3ff0XuOR7fZKmvQbwcKR6pxz_WrqpE/edit#gid=0




Assessing alignment using FIJI:

https://www.notion.so/vow/Assessing-alignment-on-
FIJI-9e5b1242808d4086b07395b8c0ca2349  
  




List of previously assessed materials and meeting notes with scaffold
companies:  
  
https://www.notion.so/vow/Scaffolds-
Biomaterials-e5ae2f0f6e3843b4a90cc2fa9926537f




Live/Dead staining guide:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/169bexLTxJYhXxeRf8_kGEkbfnRA21jO6IULUyBGwJtM/edit?usp=sharing




If running tests using our baseline in-house zein scaffolds, here is some
useful information and links to help you plan the experiment:  
  
Typical experimental timeline for scaffold work:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h2DBmkGw2FEY-
fyBSewZ4dVcpv9KFDbvrDt_32LMyLY/editLA Protocol for preparing zein scaffolds:
https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTYyNS4wfDEwNjMxNy8xMjUwLTc5MTEvVHJlZU5vZGUvNjcwMzEyNDI3fDQxMjUuMA==LA
Protocol for plating zein scaffolds:  
https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTYyNy42MDAwMDAw[…]EvVHJlZU5vZGUvMjcwOTUyMTEyNHw0MTMxLjU5OTk5OTk5OTk5OQ==LA
Protocol for seeding zein scaffolds:  
https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTYzMi44fDEwNjMxNy8xMjU2LTEyNjc1L1RyZWVOb2RlLzIwNTkzMzQ4OTd8NDE0NC44Essentially
to prepare zein, you add zein powder to 80% ethanol and stir on a stir plate
in the BSC (ethanol spray in) (stir for about 1HR), Then to each well of a
96-well plate you add 200ul of sterile filtered ultrapure water, and then once
ready add 50ul of the zein solution on top (in the centre of the well). Leave
the lid off or ajar of the plates while the zein precipitates (in the BSC).The
zein then forms a kind of film on top of the water, and after about 60-90min
this film can be detached from the well (using a very thin sterile spatula you
cut around the outside edges and lift the circular piece out the well, sterile
tweezers help) these pieces then get transferred into a sterile pot (we often
used plastic petri dishes). The pieces can then be stored in this pot in
growth media in the fridge with the pot parafilmed for ~1 week before use.The
day before scaffold seeding we typically plate out the scaffold pieces (using
sterile tweezers) into a new plate (tissue culture treated free plate!)
according to your plate map. With media in each well.On the seeding day you
remove all media from each well before you start your cell harvest. To seed
the scaffolds you just pipette a small amount of cell suspension directly over
each scaffold (~60ul suspension, 1M cells per piece) this small volume is to
prevent excess cell run off (cells will are then more likely to attach to the
plastic than the scaffold). You then leave the cell suspension on the
scaffolds for 30min (while the plate is still in the BSC). Then you gently add
growth media to each well (not shooting directly at the scaffold, enough to
fill the well) and then place the plate in the incubator.We have typically
been seeding the scaffolds in 96 well plates then moving them to 24 well
plates with bucket inserts 24 hours after seeding, The bucket inserts allows
for quicker media changes, without the fiddly handling of the scaffolds, and
the 24 wp format allows for a larger amount of media per well, as each
scaffold is seeded with about 1M cells per piece, so they eat up a lot of
media. Alternatively you can seed the scaffolds directly into a 24-well plate
with inserts, just try to ensure the cell suspension stays on the scaffold
when you seed and doesn't run off into the well. For imaging you would need to
move the samples into a new plate.Chris, Kylie and Jared have seen the above
before, as has Lily and Bonnie so these are the people to ask if you have any
questions (while I am on mat leave - Ella).NOTE - this is quite fiddly work
(tweezers and small zein pieces) so it is likely some samples may be lost when
preparing the zein, and also sometimes they crack or break during prep, so I
would always recommend preparing plenty of extra samples at the beginning


