In House: Set 4 (2x10CS) & 5 (2x10CS) - Harvest


Experiment Plan:

  

  




Procedure - Harvest

### Cell Harvest

  1. Turn on water bath and set temperature to 37C.
  2. Take the flasks for harvest and observe under the microscope at 4x objective for even cell distribution . Refer to VSOP-006. Take 2-3 images per flask.
  3. Aliquot required volume of dPBS (37C), dPBS (ambient temp) and TrypLE in separate sterile pots.  Refer to Table below for required volume.
  4. Place aliquots in pre-warmed water bath and leave for ~20 minutes or until warmed. Note: Ensure TrypLE is thoroughly warmed.
  5. Transfer aliquots and flasks required for harvest into the BSC.
  6. Collect growth media and loose aggregates from each flask.
  7. Wash with warmed dPBS, then collect this also.
  8. Add TrypLE to each of the flasks. Mix thoroughly to ensure coverage of the surface area.
  9. Place in the incubator at 37C. After 10 minutes, remove flasks and observe for 95-100% dissociation of cells. Incubate further until maximum dissociation level is reached.  
     NOTE: The flasks must be removed from the incubator within 18 minutes of initial incubation of TrypLE containing flasks
  10. Aspirate the TrypLE solution and collect into 250mL centrifuge tubes.
  11. Add ambient temperature dPBS to each flask as a final wash. To effectively remove remaining cells adhered to the flasks, mix thoroughly and then pour the dPBS into 250mL centrifuge tubes.
  12. Centrifuge at 700 x g for 5 minutes.````
  13. Meanwhile remove aggregates from collected growth media and dPBS via carefully aspiration with a serological pipette and place them into a 250mL centrifuge tube.
  14. Centrifuge this also at 700 x g for 5 minutes.
  15. Gently remove centrifuge tubes from the machine, ensuring not to disturb the cell pellets. Aspirate as much supernatant as possible from the tubes. Discard supernatant. Remove as much remaining supernatant with a 1mL pipette.

###  

### Re-pellet and Weigh Final Yield

  1. Label and Record the weight of 1 sterile centrifuge tube and set aside. Record details in Widget.  
  2. Add growth media to each centrifuge tube and resuspend cells. Refer to the table below for the required amount of growth media to be added.
  3. Combine all resuspended cells into the weighed centrifuge tube. 
  4. Wash all empty centrifuge tubes with growth media and add this to the centrifuge tube containing the resuspended cells. 
  5. Centrifuge at 700 x g x 5 minutes. 
  6. Aspirate the supernatant from the tube. Remove as much remaining supernatant with a 1mL pipette.
  7. Record the final weight of the cell pellet. Enter details in Widget. 

Tube TypeMedia Resuspension Volume Required (mL)  
500uL vial0.5  
50mL 1  
250mL5


  
  
Note:

All four flasks showed extensive, if not complete detachment of the cells into
large white/straw coloured aggregated that resembled rings or donuts at first
sight. 3/4 flasks did not have any other cell presence other than the
aggregates and it was clear that all cells had detached. These flasks were
therefore not subjected to TrypLE treatment (_waste of reagents). The 4th
flask (ID # 7478) had a mix of aggregates like the other flasks and some
middle layers with a very clearly visible section of cells still attached in a
monolayer/membrane that was opaque and appeared to be rolling up into the
donut-like aggregates at the edges where it was detaching from the plastic
surface. Upon manual agitation, the aggregated portions of the
monolayer/membrane moved around in the media and either stayed anchored to the
membrane or tore off the membrane section.

  

Floating aggregates/donuts were removed from the flask when the media was
poured off. Media from each flask was collected in new, sterile 1L containers
(labelled with the flask ID). Each flask was washed with 500 mL dPBS wherever
necessary (if the aggregates needed to be flushed or washed out of the flask).
Any pieces stuck in the flask were removed using a serological pipette by
using it as a sterile utensil to scrape out the aggregate into the
chamber/tube portion of the flasks (10CS's) so that they could be poured out
with the remaining media or dPBS.


Set 4 - VitC 50ug/mL ONLY


Notes: Flask 7478 was the trypl'd flask. Taking off the supernatant we
observed the top was quite gelatinous in nature. Not sure why but may be due
to the Tryple?

All pellets look quite wet but they are like a snotty texture and the noodle
like aggregates held their shape after the spin.


Set 5 - VitC 50ug/mL + TGFb 10ng/mL
