Background Info


The purpose of this experiment was to evaluate five separate
immunofluorescence antibodies in staining sheep and mouse fibroblast cells in
both adherent and scaffold seeded cultures. As briefly discussed in the
background information section of this EPIC, the science team has experienced
difficulties related to obtaining an immunofluorescent stain selective for
fibroblast cells beyond DAPI staining, however this has currently only been
experienced on Zein scaffolds and not been tested in adherent culture.
Therefore, to address this shortcoming we attempted to assess TE-7 and
vimentin antibody staining for both adherent and Zein seeded sheep
fibroblasts. Additionally mouse fibroblast cells (MOCHA cells) were utilised
as a positive control. Here we highlight the key findings.

*For a summary of which antibodies (including dilution) were used refer to the table below. 

  

Fibroblasts that will be seeded, fixed and staining in either adherent culture
or Zein scaffolds in wells of 96-well plate.











  
  


Fibroblasts in adherent culture  

Fibroblasts in adherent culture  

Fibroblasts in adherent culture  

Fibroblasts in adherent culture  

Fibroblasts in adherent culture  
  


Mouse fibroblasts in adherent culture  

Mouse fibroblasts in adherent culture  

Mouse fibroblasts in adherent culture  

Mouse fibroblasts in adherent culture  

Mouse fibroblasts in adherent culture  
  


Empty adherent culture surface

Empty adherent culture surface

Empty adherent culture surface

Empty adherent culture surface

Empty adherent culture surface  
  










  
  
  
Fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds  
Fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds  
Fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds  
Fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds  
Fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds  
  
  

Mouse fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds

Mouse fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds

  

Mouse fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds

  

Mouse fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds

  

Mouse fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds

  
  
  
Empty Zein scaffold  
Empty Zein scaffold  
Empty Zein scaffold  
Empty Zein scaffold  
Empty Zein scaffold  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  


Stained with TE-7 antibody (1:100 dilution) - In house

Stained with TE-7 antibody (1:50 dilution) - In house

Stained with TE-7 antibody (1:100 dilution) - New

Stained with Vimentin (1:50 dilution) conjugated with primary and secondary
antibody

Stained with Vimentin antibody (1:50 dilution) and independent secondary
antibody  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

* In-house TE-7 refers to the antibody stain that was already purchased in-house whereas new was a new TE-7 antibody stain that was recently ordered. 


Results


In order to assess for the presence of fibroblast cells a variety of
immunofluorescent stains were evaluated for the expression of TE-7 and
Vimentin. Subsequent to primary and secondary antibody staining, images were
captured for each adherent fibroblast culture condition. Interestingly, co-
staining of sheep fibroblast cells with TE-7 (In-house) and DAPI in both the
1:100 and 1:50 dilution treatment groups showed that these fibroblasts were
negative for TE-7 (Figure 1, Figure 2). Despite this, the majority of
fibroblast cell nuclei were positive for DAPI, indicating the presence of DNA
material (Figure 1, Figure 2). A similar finding was observed in the condition
group utilising a separate TE-7 (New) antibody stain, with fibroblasts cells
lacking a fluorescent signal under the AF488 TE-7 excitation spectra (Figure
3). Included as a positive control for the TE-7 and Vimentin antibody staining
procedure in adherent culture, mouse fibroblasts cells (MOCHA cells) were
simultaneously evaluated using these two antibodies in parallel with the sheep
fibroblasts. Unfortunately, due to unexpected cell loss only a small number of
MOCHA cells were found to remain adhered to the culture surface following the
fixing and staining procedure (Figure 4). Moreover, these MOCHA cells did not
show any expression of TE-7 in all TE-7 staining treatments (Figure 4). As
expected, sheep fibroblasts were positive for Vimentin in both Vimentin
staining conditions (Figure 5). However it is necessary to note that under
closer inspection the staining appears diffuse and non-specific. Likewise no
MOCHA cells were detected from either the DAPI or Vimentin stains in the two
Vimentin staining conditions (Figure 6).  

In addition to analysing TE-7 and Vimentin expression in adherent fibroblast
culture we simultaneously evaluated sheep and mouse fibroblast staining seeded
onto Zein scaffolds. However due to the Zein scaffolds breaking apart
approximately 24 hours after seeding the fibroblast cells onto the scaffolds
in each of the five conditions, they were not imaged as they were not
representative of proper scaffolds.

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  


