

## Completed by: Katie + Bonnie




HyClone medias are commercial ACF medias designed for use in large scale
suspension cultures. They have been specifically developed for established
cell lines, CHO, HEK293 as well as avian cells such as EB66, which are
commonly used in suspension culture for recombinant protein and vaccine
manufacturing. While there is little published data on the ability of these
medias to support cells from other species or other cell types in the process
of adapting to suspension culture, we hypothesis that they will provide a
nutrient profile that is more appropriate for fibroblasts in suspension than
our  previous medias which used a DMEM/F12 base (see below for links to
previous trials). We also believe that the addition of growth factors such as
basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), insulin-like growth factor (IGF1) and
platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) to these commercial medias will further
improve fibroblast survival and proliferation in suspension culture.

We have ordered 5 different Hyclone medias for this study (see next section
for details) however their delivery has unfortunately been very delayed. We
will therefor begin the trial using HyClone4 Avian and HyClone4CHO only, as
they are expected to arrive first along with CD CHO which we already have in
stock. In addition to these medias we will trial DMEM/F12 medias supplemented
with additional growth factors, vitamins and metal ions with a view to
mimicking the profiles of common commercial medias.  

See previous suspension trials 1-6 here:  
  
1: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NzA3LjJ8MTA2MzE3LzU0NC0yNDk0L1RyZWVOb2RlLzIxNzgwMTk2MTN8MTc5NS4xOTk5OTk5OTk5OTk4

2\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTE4OC4yfDEwNjMxNy85MTQtNDg1NS9UcmVlTm9kZS8xMTI0ODcxMTA5fDMwMTYuMg==  
3\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTkxMi4zfDEwNjMxNy8xNDcxLTk2MjQvVHJlZU5vZGUvMjA0ODgzNDg2M3w0ODU0LjM=  
4\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjUyMi4wfDEwNjMxNy8xOTQwLTE0MTc3L1RyZWVOb2RlLzQxOTgyNzMwNDl8NjQwMi4w  
5\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjkzNC4xfDEwNjMxNy8yMjU3LTE1ODMxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzIyOTQzNDE0MjN8NzQ0OC4wOTk5OTk5OTk5OTk=  
6\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjUyMC43MDAwMDAwMDAwMDAzfDEwNjMxNy8xOTM5LTEzNjI0L1RyZWVOb2RlLzgzOTM5NjAzOHw2Mzk4Ljc=




Planned conditions  

6- well plate format  
10 x 50ml Shaker tubes will be seeded with suspension cultures. Half with
F_DOLLY12 cells, and the other with F_NANDO3.

F_NANDO3 cells will be thawed directly into suspension from frozen isolates
and suspended at 100,000/mL.  F_DOLLY12 will be taken from planar culture and
placed into suspension at 1,000,000/mL.

Each of the basal medias below will be supplemented with 10% Knockout serum
replacement + 1:100 anti-clumping agent + 0.1% pluronic + 100ng/mL each FGF,
IGF1, PDGF.  

1\. DMEM/F12  
2\. CDM4 Avian  
3\. CDM4 CHO  
4\. CD CHO  
5\. RPMI

E125 flask format  
In addition to the 6-well plates, we would like to trial our most promising
formulations in E125 flasks. This is so that we can increase the number of
cells in culture, and thereby increase the probability of successfully
adapting a proportion of these cells to suspension.

Condition 1: 1 x E125: Direct thaw F_NANDO3 cells at 100K/ml into 25mL in CDM4
Avian \+ 10% Knockout serum replacement + 1:100 anti-clumping agent + 0.1%
pluronic + 100ng/mL each FGF, IGF1, PDGF. *  
Condition 2: 1 x E125: F_DOLLY12 cells from adherent culture into 25mL at
1M/mL in CD CHO + 10% Knockout serum replacement + 1:100 anti-clumping agent +
0.1% pluronic + 100ng/mL each FGF, IGF1, PDGF.  **  
  
Note:  
*The avian CHO media is specifically designed for avian cells, so this is our "best guess" for chicken cell suspension

**We have had difficulty getting the other medias in stock however the CD CHO
is not from Cytiva and may therefore be more easily accessible. We are
therefore trialling this media as out best bet for F_DOLLY12 cells.

House blend  
At a later stage, we will also aim to trial a RPMI basal media supplemented
with additional supplements as shown below. This will not be included in this
initial trial however as some of the reagents are yet to arrive.

  * 6mM Ciccin acid (anti-clumping properties, affects metabolism)
  * 6mM Sodium succinate (is the base form of ciccinic acid)
  * 10nM Vitamin D2 
  * 1.08uM D-alpha tocopherol
  * 1.08uM D-L alpha tocopheryl acetate.
  * 0.5mM (0.132mg/mL) Ferric ammonium citrate
  * 10uM Hydroxy-L-proline
  * 60uM ethanolamine
  * 0.5ug/mL L-glutathione (reduced)
  * 1:100 Trace Elements B
  * 1:100 Trace Elements C




Media

 Notes  
  
CD CHO

  * Protein and serum free, optimised for CHO cells in suspension. 

  
  
HyClone CDM4Avian

  

  * Designed for avian suspension cells such as EB66 (duck embryonic stem cells) which are used in vaccine manufacturing. 

  
  
Hyclone CDM4CHO

  * Developed for, and tested on CHO (Chinese hamster ovary) cells. Designed to increase yield in recombinant protein production. 
  * Demonstrated use in shaker culture and bioreactors. 

  
  
HyClone CDM4HEK293

  * Designed for HEK293 (human embryonic kidney) cells used in protein manufacturing 

  
  
HyClone ActiPro

  * Designed for CHO cells 
  * Manufacturer claims it should be used with HyClone ActiSM and Cell Boost 7a as well as Cell Boost 7b supplements 

  
  
HyClone Hycell CHO

  * For CHO cells in shaker flasks or bioreactors. 


  
  
Media

 Catalog #

 Expected arrival

 URL  
  
CD CHO

10743029

In stock

https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/10743029#/10743029  
  
HyClone CDM4Avian

SH31036.02

5-Aug-2021

https://www.cytivalifesciences.com/en/us/shop/cell-culture-and-
fermentation/media-and-feeds/specialty-media/hyclone-cdm4avian-media-p-05971  
  
HyClone CDM4CHO

SH30557.02

5-Aug-2021

https://www.cytivalifesciences.com/en/us/shop/cell-culture-and-
fermentation/media-and-feeds/specialty-media/hyclone-cdm4cho-cell-culture-
media-p-06206  
  
HyClone CDM4HEK293

SH30858.02

26-Aug-2021

https://www.cytivalifesciences.com/en/us/shop/cell-culture-and-
fermentation/media-and-feeds/specialty-media/hyclone-cdm4hek293-media-p-06207  
  
HyClone ActiPro

SH31039.02

TBA

https://www.cytivalifesciences.com/en/us/shop/cell-culture-and-
fermentation/media-and-feeds/specialty-media/hyclone-actipro-cell-culture-
media-p-06205  
  
HyClone Hycell CHO

SH30934.01

TBA

https://www.cytivalifesciences.com/en/us/shop/cell-culture-and-
fermentation/media-and-feeds/specialty-media/hyclone-hycell-cho-cell-culture-
media-p-06304


