

Below is a dummy header entry to be copy and pasted into all new EPIC pages in
Lab Archives. Please complete the Link to Clubhouse, Aims and Hypothesis
BEFORE you begin the experiment.




LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/21531?cf_workflow=500000005&ct_workflow=all  

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/reccthPGe7FwTiTqu?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE:  Please provide the milestone that this EPIC is
progressing towards

AIM/PURPOSE: To build and test a suspension cell culture and analysis platform
for high-throughpout sscreening of variables affecting suspension adaptation
and volumetric biomass productivity. Adapting cells to suspension requires
testing of numerous interacting variables. Therefore, we need a platform that
can measure the proliferation of more than 100 cultures simultaneously for the
purposes of cell line screening and media optimization. The >100 cultures is
based upon an estimated 105 cultures required to perform an 8-factor
definitive screening design with 5 replicates per condition.  
  
More notes on the requirements here: https://www.notion.so/vow/HT-suspension-
culture-platform-requirements-and-constraints-design-ideas-
aa9fbc6fb0fd4c748fb52321c230aee3

HYPOTHESIS: That a suitable platform can be built substantially from existing
tools and materials at Vow; that such a platform will allow us to quickly
identify optimal conditions for adapting cells to suspension, maximizing
volumetric biomass productivity and more.

RESULTS SUMMARY: This should only be completed if the data can be visualised
with a single graph/image, otherwise simply state "See Report".

CONCLUSIONS: What were the overall findings? This should be a concise summary
and not duplicate the information in the results/report. For example "We found
that Bovine MuSCs could only achieve a cell density 50% of that observed with
planar culture without undergoing precocious differentiation. These results
mean that we are currently limited to X cells/ml in suspension culture until
we find a way to inhibit precocious differentiation"

NEXT STEPS: This should be a dot point list of any immediate outcomes, changes
to SOPs, as well as providing a direct link to any new experiments arising
from these findings. Importantly, this section should also include any
potential DEPLOYMENTS to the production team


