Final Report: EPIC 16034 Exploring Fibroblast Aggregation


TGFb and Vitamin C treatment in the context of agitation leads to production
of fibroblast aggregates.

When confluent fibroblasts in a T175 flask were placed on a shaker set at 100
rpm and incubated with media (DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1x PS) containing 50 ug/mL
Vitamin C and 10 ng/mL TGFb, fibroblast aggregates formed within 12 hours.
These fibroblast aggregates were clearly visible in the flask (i.e.
macroscopic), and held their form when they were harvested and washed. 0.3 g
of fibroblasts were harvested from 1 x T175; previously, 0.6 g of fibroblasts
had been harvested from 1 x four layer cell factory.

The food science team at Vow cooked the fibroblast aggregates for 5 minutes at
70 degrees C by sous-vide. The aggregates presented as a textured mass, with
separate strands that could be pulled apart.  The strands were like small,
thin, circular noodles and held their form both during cooking and on the
tongue.  They were slightly savoury in flavour and not dissimilar to cooked
egg white or overcooked spaghetti.  The strands could be flattened between the
tongue and palate and were not chewy.  The strands dissolved leaving no
residue or undesirable attributes. To see the full textural and taste profile
of the fibroblast aggregates, see the linked report in notion, prepared by the
food team: https://www.notion.so/vow/Fibroblast-Aggregate-
Assessment-23-4-21-c13caf2cfc534d23ba2b4c687364969b

  

Potential role of fibroblast aggregates in producing meat.

As stated above, approximately 0.3 g of fibroblast biomass was harvested from
1 x T175 flask. This was impressive in light of the previous harvest of the
fibroblast WCB; in that instance, from a four layer cell factor, 0.6 g of cell
mass was harvested (see [1] for full details). The surface area of a four
layer cell factor is 2528 cm2. This is approximately 14.5 times larger than
the surface area of a T175 and indicates that substantially more biomass per
surface area can be produced by this fibroblast aggregation method relative to
the current amount of mass per square centimeter of surface area being
produced by the production team. The fibroblast aggregation strategy is
approximately 7.25 times more efficient from the perspective of biomass per
square centimetre.

In addition, the food team determined that the texture and taste of the
fibroblast aggregates were relatively desirable. No undesirable attributes
would have to be masked, which is an advantage over some of the scaffold
assessments [3]. In addition, the fact that the texture and flavour of the
biomass is driven from the cells themselves rather than a scaffold was deemed
a benefit.

  

Proposed mechanism for formation of fibroblast aggregates

Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid or LAA2P, has previously been shown to
increase fibroblast adhesion [4], perhaps via increased production of
collagen. Specifically, Vitamin C acts as a co-factor for the proline and
lysine hydroxylases that stabilise the collagen molecule tertiary structure
and also promotes collagen gene expression. In the presence of Vitamin C,
there is also increased cross-linking of collagen [5].

TGFb stimulates the synthesis and assembly of matrix proteins including both
fibronectin and collagen [6]. Specifically TGFb promotes fibroblast collagen
formation through up-regulation of miR-21 and the PTEN/AKT signalling pathway
[7]. TGFb is typically produced by immune cells such as macrophages in the
context of fibrosis, or formation of scar tissue [8].

Based on these findings in the literature, I hypothesise that both Vitamin C
and TGFb are required for formation of fibroblast aggregates. TGFb stimulates
increased synthesis of fibroblast collagen via miR-21 and the PTEN/AKT
signalling pathway. Collagen cross-linking is driven by Vitamin C, which also
helps to stabilise the collagen molecule tertiary structure. The increased
production of extracellular matrix proteins leads the fibroblasts to bind to
each other rather than the base of the T-flask. Though at Vow we are unlikely
to perform specific experiments to determine whether this hypothesised
mechanism is correct, I will spend some time determining whether treatment of
fibroblasts with both TGFb and Vitamin C in tandem is critical for this
process. Based on this hypothesised method of action, shaking of the T175 may
actually not be required for formation of aggregates. It may speed the process
along, facilitating interactions of TGFb and Vitamin C with adherent
fibroblasts, but I will also perform a follow-up experiment to determine
whether shaking of the T175 flask is critical for aggregate formation.

  

There is literature to indicate that mechanical stresses can lead to formation
of cellular aggregates [9, 10]. Perhaps to achieve the "strand-like"
structure, the mechanical stresses are important. However, for scalability
purposes, achieving formation of fibroblast sheets without shaking is an
avenue worth pursuing, given that I have found no literature to indicate that
mechanical stress impacts fibroblast collagen or ECM production.

  

Use of Vitamin C and TGFb in current ACF media formulations

It is important to note that Vitamin C (LAA2P) and TGFb are currently used in
E6, E8, and our ACF media formulations. In both E8 and E6 media, 64ug/mL LAA2P
is used which is comparable to the 50ug/mL LAA2P used to facilitate fibroblast
aggregates. 2ng/mL TGFb is a component of both E8 media and our ACF media
formulation for proliferation. This is 20% of the amount of TGFb used here to
form aggregates. It will be interesting and important to optimise the
concentrations of Vitamin C and TGFb in the fibroblast media as we move
towards a ACF media for fibroblasts, so that we can facilitate proliferation
as desired and also produce aggregates as desired.

  

Limitations

Because this was a pilot experiment, it was not set up to be properly
controlled. Instead, we completed this experiment to determine if we should
pursue this line of investigation. Clearly, the addition of shaking, 10 ng/mL
TGFb, and 50 ug/mL Vitamin C has a substantial effect on over-confluent
fibroblasts, leading to lift-up of cells. However, an experiment which
incorporates a number of controls is now necessary in order to determine the
optimised conditions for production of fibroblast aggregates. Currently, it is
unclear whether the addition of Vitamin C, TGFb, or the shaking (or indeed all
three in combination) is critical for formation of the fibroblast aggregates.

If we wanted to produce fibroblast aggregates at scale, we would want to use
cell factories rather than T175 flasks. To achieve this, we would need to find
a way to produce aggregates without shaking. Static incubation is preferred
for working with cell factories, due to the media exchange between layers that
is likely to occur during shaking which would potentially leave one level of
the cell factory without sufficient media to provide support for cells. Thus,
a key limitation of the current strategy is the reliance on shaking for
formation of fibroblast aggregates.

In addition, the current method requires 10 ng/mL of TGFb. As mentioned above,
this is approximately 5 times the amount of TGFb used in our current ACF
media. Given the cost of TGFb, this could be a limitation of large-scale use
of this method to produce meat and at some stage it might be worth pursuing an
alternative strategy. Perhaps we can use lower amounts of TGFb over a longer
period of incubation to achieve the same effect. Perhaps in time we could
perform small molecule screens to identify a cheaper small molecule that might
stimulate the same pathways in fibroblasts as TGFb, to achieve the same
formation of aggregates for cheaper.

In addition, a current limitation of this protocol is that it relies on
adherent culture. We will need to find a way to form aggregates from
fibroblasts in suspension culture if we are going to scale up this process for
use commercially.

  

Overall Conclusion

Fibroblast aggregates form when fibroblasts are grown to confluence, then
stimulated with 10 ng/mL TGFb and 50 ug/mL Vitamin C for approximately 12
hours while on a shaker platform set to 100 rpm. These fibroblast aggregates
have a texture resembling thin noodles and don't possess any negative flavours
or attributes that would need to be masked. Given the macroscopic biomass that
was able to be produced from the single T175 used for this experiment, this
pilot experiment absolutely indicates that further investigations should be
completed.

  

Future Directions

EPIC 17048 Conditions for optimal fibroblast aggregates will assess fibroblast
aggregation in response to various concentrations of TGFb and Vitamin C, in
the presence or absence of shaking. We hope that we can identify a combination
of TGFb and Vitamin C that allows for formation of fibroblast aggregates in
the absence of shaking. If we are successful, this protocol for forming
fibroblast aggregates without shaking will be deployed into Production as part
of Project Artemis. Project Artemis is focused on growing sufficient
fibroblasts alongside sufficient MuSCs for the food team to taste both cell
types and identify any differences between the two. Given the benefit on
texture that was achieved via the formation of fibroblast aggregates, we would
like to be able to compare the taste and texture of MuSCs alone to the taste
and texture of fibroblast aggregates.

See the following link for the immediate follow-up experiment: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/Njc0Ljd8MTA2MzE3LzUxOS9UcmVlTm9kZS82ODI2OTQ1NjF8MTcxMi42OTk5OTk5OTk5OTk4

  

References:

1\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjE1Ljh8MTA2MzE3LzE2Ni9UcmVlTm9kZS8zNTgxNDE4NTA5fDU0Ny44

2\.
https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/product/sigma/z720860?lang=en&region=AU&gclid=CjwKCAjwm7mEBhBsEiwA_of-
TJVdLcdsvvOWEav6IY_kMElV8-Fso2iktJU81jUpkWiZUtScYlgs5BoC_6cQAvD_BwE

3\. https://www.notion.so/vow/Matrix-Meats-Hybrid-Unit-
Assessment-30-4-21-5562aae010c8402ab7dae930aea920eb

4\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17325628/

5\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5579659/

6\. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/art.10621

7\. https://www.nature.com/articles/srep32231

8\. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-74179-6

9\. https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/technical-documents/articles/biology/cell-
culture-troubleshooting-cell-clumping.html

10\. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-14325-9

  


