

Here is a place for notes or for background literature relevant to the project
at large. Please provide a link to the primary source, as well as the key
information.

Some key areas for this project:

1\. Getting cells to adapt to suspension

2\. Optimising media & bioreactor conditions to support 5g/L (5 million
cells/mL)

3\. High-throughput analysis of suspension cultures

4\. Animal component free media to support fibroblasts or cells in suspension.

  

 It does not have to immediately seem relevant, but anything that helps or
that we should keep in mind, useful resources for hardware or information,
contractors that can help us build things etc.

\--> For every new comment, please insert a new Rich Text section


Protein hydrolysates as medium supplements


Protein hydrolysates (also known as "peptones", "peptides" or "hydrolyzed
proteins"), are protein fragments created by the hydrolysis of some high-
protein material (Lobo-Alfonso et al., 2010). Typically, plant or microbial
biomass is digested by exogenous enzymes, acids or bases. Autolysis (digestion
by the cell itself) can also be induced by activating endogenous enzymes (as
is the case with yeast cell products like Marmite and Vegemite). Besides amino
acids and peptides, these hydrolysates contain an array of other compounds
that are released during the digestion of the biomass. The combination of
digestible amino acids, peptides and a cocktail of growth-promoting molecules
makes these hydrolysates attractive alternatives to serum as media
supplements. However, the identities and/or mechanisms of action of most of
the compounds in hydrolysates remain largely unknown, so hydrolysates are
often known as chemically "undefined" or "complex" supplements.

A successful serum-free culture medium for CHO cells, known as "WCM5", was
developed by the Wellcome Research laboratories in the early 1990s (Keen and
Rapson, 1995). The ingredients of this medium are shown below. The final
formula contained soy peptone as the major supplement; however, yeast extract
was found to boost cell proliferation even more than soy peptone. The authors
cite "quality assurance and purification considerations" as the reason for why
soy peptone is preferred over yeast extract. Some other chemically defined
supplements were important to enable proliferation with this medium,
including: ions like zinc, copper, sulfate and phosphate; vitamins like
pyridoxine (B6) and cyanocobalamin (B12); small molecules like ethanolamine
and putrescine; and proteins like insulin. These supplements are commonly used
even in modern chemically-defined ACF for CHO cells (e.g. Zhang et al., 2013).

The WCM5 formulation of Keen and Rapson (1995) would be a good starting point
for a serum-free suspension medium. There are a number of potential additional
supplements that could be tested, such as those commonly found in human
mesenchymal stem cell (HuMSC) media below (Jung et al., 2012).

  


Category  
Product  
Supplier  
Notes  
  
Soy  
Difco Select Soytone 212488  
BD https://www.bdbiosciences.com/ds /ab/others/Phytone_Soytone.pdf  
Looks like it has been used for CHO media before  
  
Soy  
Difco Select Phytone UF 210931  
BD https://www.bdbiosciences.com/ds/ ab/others/Phytone_Soytone.pdf  
Ultrafiltered version of BBL Phytone Peptone for low endotoxin content,
therefore this is our 2nd choice
https://legacy.bd.com/ds/technicalCenter/misc/lcn01558-bionutrients-manual.pdf  
  
Soy  
BBL Phytone Peptone 211906  
BD https://www.bdbiosciences.com/ds /ab/others/Phytone_Soytone.pdf  
Looks like it has been used for CHO media before - recommended by BD as serum
replacement, therefore this is our 1st choice
https://legacy.bd.com/ds/technicalCenter/misc/lcn01558-bionutrients-manual.pdf  
  
Barley  
Bacto Malt Extract 218630  
  
  
  
Yeast  
Bacto TC Yeastolate 255772  
  
  
  
Yeast  
Bacto Yeast extract, Technical 288620  
  
  
  
Yeast  
BBL Yeast Extract 211929  
  
Also good alternative to FBS, 3rd choice  
  
Yeast  
Difco Yeast Extract UF 210929  
  
Also good alternative to FBS, 3rd choice  
  
Yeast  
Difco TC Yeastolate UF 292804  
  
  


References
  
  
All references can be found in the Vow library on Mendeley.

Lobo-Alfonso, J., Price, P., and Jayme, D. (pp. 55 - 78, 2010). Use of protein
hydrolysates in industrial starter culture fermentations. In Ummadi, M.,
Curic-Bawden, M. (Eds). Protein Hydrolysates in Biotechnology.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4020-6674-0_6

Jung, S., Panchalingam, K. M., Rosenberg, L., & Behie, L. A. (2012). Ex vivo
expansion of human mesenchymal stem cells in defined serum-free media. Stem
Cells International, 2012. https://doi.org/10.1155/2012/123030

Keen and Rapson (1995). Development of a serum-free culture medium for the
large scale production of recombinant protein from a Chinese hamster ovary
cell line. 153-163.

Zhang, H., Wang, H., Liu, M., Zhang, T., Zhang, J., Wang, X., & Xiang, W.
(2013). Rational development of a serum-free medium and fed-batch process for
a GS-CHO cell line expressing recombinant antibody. Cytotechnology, 65(3),
363-378\. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10616-012-9488-4


Fibroblast product & ECM considerations


Do the cells cluster together and surround themselves with ECM (collagen)?  Or
do they stay as indivduals?

What is the surface morphology of a cluster/ individual cell?  

Do we best consider it as a lipid w.r.t. other ingredients, and look to
incorporate it into a continuous aqueous phase using an emulsifier as an
intermediate?

 Would we expect the collagen to turn into gelatin as we cook the mass
including incorporated cells and change it's chemistry?


