

[C] 50% Feed after 48 hours.

Growth Media:

  * [x]  DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1X P/S + P38i (10uM)

Total media required: 30

Total p38i required: 15

### Process:

  1. Aliquotted   30`mL` of  growth` Media` into 1x50mL   tube(s) (without p38inhibitor). Placed in water bath   15`:15 a/pm`
  2. Removed  culture 6338 from the incubator at 15:30 then aspirated and discarded 50% of supernatant from the E250 vessel without disturbing the microcarrier pellet.
  3. Added 15uL of p38 inhibitor stock to the warmed aliquoted growth media (final conc 10uM).
  4. Replaced the discarded volume in the E flask with 30`mL of` media.
  5. Returned vessel to incubate at: 15:45
    * [x]  37ºC, 5% CO2 (mammalian cells), shaking at 120rpm.
    * [ ]  40ºC, 5% CO2 (aviary cells)

Growth Media: 3246

p38i: 3978




Water run of the Opentron Fix and DAPI microcarrier culture protocol. 16:15.

Loaded the opentron protocol designed to fix and dapi microcarrier cultures
(see attached Json file). substituted all reagents and microcarrier volumes in
the protcol for water in order to test the functionality of the protocol prior
to use tomorrow.




It might be ideal to lower the height of the pipette during the dPBS mixing.
The dPBS wash doesn't have to be dispensed at a high desirable for aspiration,
in fact lowering it might give better mixing of the carrier pellet. (This can
be changed for all dispense and mix steps). The height is currently set at
9mm, we can reduce this down to 2-3mm instead for all dispense and mixing
steps.  




One observation made previously about the microcarrier work was that the
cytodex 1 microcarriers stick quite readily to the cell culture treated
plastic ware. This could be and advantage for us when we want to sample from
many culture but increase our processing thoughput. We could aliquot smaller
volumes into a 96 well plate and have the Opentron multi channel pipette go
though the fixing and dapi staining protocol, assuming the carriers are easily
bound to the base of the well. Food for thought for high thoughput opentron
work with microcarriers.




The mixing frequency can probably be reduced to 3 mixes from 5 for each
dispense step once the pipette high has been adjusted to 2-3mm. This should
speed up the protocol  




A 1-2 minute wait step will be needed once the DAPI is applied on the last
well. This will ensure that the first well (A1) has been incubated for a
minimum of 5 minutes in DAPI solution.




Channel 4 on reagent reservoir did not have enough dPBS to wash well number 6.
I need to up the dPBS volume to 14.5mL. The protocol took 1h and 20 minutes to
complete. 17:40. Made the changes suggested above to the protocol in opentron
protocol designer and saved the new version (see below)  


