

Perform passage using below volumes:




## Performed by: Adrian Kotevski & Lily Logan




Culture IDs:

Flask Type  
Flasks ID(s)Condition  
Well Location  
6-well plate  
7068-F_DOLLY12-Sheep P11-1of2  
Dead (Freeze thaw)  
A1  
7069-F_DOLLY12-Sheep P11-2of2  
Live (Non treated)  
A1  
  
  




Process:

Preparation of dead cells:

1\. Remove the culture vessel from the incubator (ID_7068)and transfer into
the BSC to undergo the freeze thaw cycle.

  1. Ensure each well is imaged on phase prior to the freeze thaw cycle

2\. Aspirate the media from each well of the 6-well plate

3\. Parafilm the plate to maintain sterility and transfer the 6-well plate
into the -80'C freezer for 30 minutes

  1. Start/Finish time was:   12:34 - 13:04

4\. Aliquot 36 mL of dPBS for the rinsing of the cells following each of the
30 minute cycles

  1. Time placed in water bath     12:47  

5\. Remove the 6-well plate from the -80'C freezer and add 2mL of warmed dPBS
to each well.

6\. Aspirate dPBS from each well and return the vessel (parafilmed) to the
-80'C freezer for another 30 minute cycle

  1. Start/Finish time was:   13:18 - 13:48
  2. Return the dPBS aliquot to the water bath to remain warm during the 30 minute incubation time

7\. Repeat steps 5-6 for one more cycle

  1. Start/Finish time was:   13:55 - 14:25

8\. Following the final freeze thaw cycle proceed with the live/dead staining.

  1. Image each well post freeze thaw as an indication of cell loss due to freeze thaw cycle and rinsing with dPBS.




Process:

Live/Dead staining:

Preparation of stock and and working solutions for CMFDA Cell Tracker (used
due to not being able to locate Calcein)

1\. Remove the CMFDA powder from the freezer (main lab) and allow it to warm
to room temperature. Each aliquot is 50 ug.

  1.  Briefly centrifuge the tube to pellet the CMFDA powder

2\. Add 50 uL high-quality, anhydrous DMSO to the powder and pipette up and
down until well suspended. This will yield a 1 mM stock solution.

  1. NOTE - Once prepared, the DMSO stock solution should be stored at -20'C in a 70 mL pot submerged in silica-gel desiccant beads for a short period for one series of experiments. 

3\. Transfer 20 uL of the 1mM CMFDA stock solution to 10 mL of prepared
DMEM/F12 PRF growth media in a light safe 15 mL falcon tube to protect it from
light. Vortex to ensure thorough mixing with the resulting solution being
approximately 2 uM CMFDA working solution.

4\. Prepare a separate 10 mL of DMEM/F12 PRF growth media.

  1.  Transfer both the CMFDA working stock solution and DMEM/F12 PRF growth media into the water bath to be pre-warmed

5\. Aspirate the dPBS from one well (A1) of the freeze thawed 6-well plate and
growth media from the corresponding non-treated 6-well plate (A1)

6\. Add 2 mL of pre-warmed DMEM/F12 PRF growth media to the non-treated 6-well
plate that had media removed from it in the previous step (well A1) as a rinse
step to remove any residue serum. No need to wash out the well from the freeze
thaw treated 6-well plate.

7\. Aspirate the growth media from the non-treated 6-well plate well (A1).

8\. Add 2 mL of pre-warmed CMFDA working solution to the A1 wells from both
the freeze thaw and non treated 6-well plates and incubate for 30 minutes at
37'C covered in foil to protect samples from light.

  1. Start/Finish time was:  14:49 - 15:19
  2.  If the CMFDA working solution is no longer required dispose of solution as aqueous waste as aqueous solutions of CMFDA are susceptible to hydrolysis and should be used within one day.

9\. Remove plates from incubator and transfer into the BSC

10\. Add 10 uL of propidium iodide (Frozen aliquot in main lab freezer is 0.2
mg/mL - was originally 1 mg/mL but had been diluted 201 uL in 799 uL of dPBS)
into each well from both the freeze thaw and non treated 6-well plates and
incubate for 5 minutes at room temperature in the dark.

  1. Start/Finish time was:  15:25 - 15:30 

11\. Without changing the media in the wells, image wells (A1) from both
freeze thaw and non treated plates on the Zaber fluorescence microscope
(channel AF488 for CMFDA [Live cells] and AF 555 for propidium iodide [Dead
cells])

12\. Return the non treated plate to the incubator and freeze thaw treated
stored at 4'C wrapped in foil.




Media/Reagents used:  

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
dPBS  
A5063  
  
DMEM/F12 PRFA5354  
  
Propidium iodideS1129  
  
CMFDAS910  
  
DMSOA3931  
  
  
  




Observations/Summary:

Representative images of the freeze thaw treated well incubated with CMFDA
(2uM) for 30 minutes at 37'C and Propidium iodide (0.2 mg/mL) at room
temperature for 5 minutes. Left image is taken on the AF 488 channel (CMFDA)
to indicate for live cells and the right image is taken on the AF 555 channel
(Propidium iodide) for dead cells. As this sample was treated with the freeze
thaw cycle is would be expected that the cells would fluoresce under the AF
555 channel only, which is what was observed.

  

  

  

Representative images of the non treated samples staining using the same
conditions as described above. It was expected that a signal would only be
obtained under the AF 488 channel since these cells were not freeze thawed and
thus still alive.

  

\- As expected majority of the cells in the live condition fluoresced under
the 488 channel indicative of live cells. A similar fining was observed for
the dead cell condition with a signal seen under the 555 channel (Propidium
iodide)

\- Only a few cells in the live condition also fluoresced in the PI channel
which is expected in culture.

\- The live and dead staining were sufficiently intense to indicate whether
the cells where live or dead, indicating that the staining concentrations of
both dyes is sufficient to obtain live/dead results.




Results:

  * Results were;
    * [ ]  As Usual (this is a repetitive task)
    * [x]  Unexpected because... it worked
    * [ ]  Need to be further analysed
    * [ ]  Other (.......)




Relevant Images/Figures (if applicable):

Phase images of vessels prior to live dead staining:

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recB1VbzX5vHkOQfd/images (7068),
Wednesday June 09

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recPPOwdYtEhdqY0l/images (7069),
Wednesday June 09


