Brief background


This experiment follows on from a previous experiment which trialed using 384
well plates and a machine learning algorithm to improve our single cell
cloning capacity. The goal of this experiment was use to scale up this
strategy to isolate and grow BUFFY6 muscle stem cell clones that had been pre
screened for suspension adaptation.

Single cell cloning presents as one strategy for Vow to introduce stress on
our cells and induce spontaneous mutations. Such mutations may enable them to
undergo population doublings that exceed their biological limit. This is of
great interest to Vows mission of growing biomass at a scale only achievable
using cells that are adapted to suspension cultures. By pre screening our
cells for suspension adaptations, and increasing our clone selection and
screening capacity, we aim to improve our chances of generating a clonal cell
line with high proliferative longevity that supports this vission.


Key results


  

Clonal Cell line  
Total cell number at bank (22 days)  
Overall doubling rate (cell cycles/day)  
Vials banked  
Date stored at -80  
Date stored in LN  
MyoD positive  
Capable of differentiation?Capable of fusion?  
  
BUFFY6_21L103.828x10^60.9948 (460K in 500uL)22-June-211-July-21Yes  
YesYes  
BUFFY6_25K63.72x10^50.8411 (366K in 500uL)22-June-211-July-21YesNot testedNot
tested


  
  
BUFFY6 cells at passage 9 after biopsy isolation were cultured in planar
culture for three days after thawing from liquid nitrogen. Cells were
harvested and introduced to cytodex 1 microcarrier suspension culture. Cells
were grown over an additional 10 days, with passages occurring on day 5 and
10. The cells were then harvested and FACS sorted using propridium iodide and
Hoechst 33342 at the Garvan medical research institute. Individual wells
filled with growth media (DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1xP/S + 10uM P38 inhibitor)
across 11x384 well plates were sorted with one PI- and Hoechst+ cell each.
Plates were then returned to Vow and cells were left to grow, incubating for
four days at 37 degrees, 5% CO2.

Images of each well were captured 24 and 72 hours after the sorting date (see
Figure 1 and 2 as examples). All plates were imaged using a Basler camera
under phase microscopy using a 5x objective attached to a Zaber microscope
inside a 32oC incubation chamber. Cell counts per well were generated using
images captured at the 72 hour time point. These images were processed using a
bandpass filter in FIJI (filtering for constructs between 40-3 pixels in
size). A machine learning algorithm was then used to detect and count cells
for each well. 260 wells containing â‰¥3 cells were passaged the following day
into 96 well plates.

Clones were then monitored closely over 22 days and passaged to larger vessels
whenever confluence reached 60-70% and cell morphology matched the following
guide. Full passaging progression of clones was tracked in the following
google sheet:

Cells passaged from 384, 96 and 24 well plates underwent a 50% feed 24h after
seeding and then every 48 hours until next passage. Cells passaged from 6 well
plates and T flask cultures were fed every 48 hours after seeding until next
passage.  
  
Two clonal populations remained after 22 days, BUFFY6_21L10  and BUFFY6_25K6,
at a total cell population of 3.828x10^6 and 3.72x10^5 respectively. Both
clones showed raised, triangular cell morphology consistent with criteria
outlined by the guide linked above (see figure 3).  BUFFY6_21L10 cells were
banked down into 8 cryovials containing 4.6x10^5 cells each. BUFFY6_25K6 cells
were banked into 1 cryovial.

A small number of cells from each population was sub passaged for myogenic
purity analysis and differentiation capacity testing at the time of banking.

For myogenic purity analysis, cells were seeded at 5555cells/cm^2 in DMEM/F12
+ 20% FBS + 1xP/S, left for two days, fixed using 4% PFA. Cells were then
stained using DAPI and immunofluorescent antibodies specific for MyoD. Cells
were then imaged once more using the Zaber imaging system under UV and 555nm
wavelengths. Both clones exhibited MyoD expression in 100% of cells observed
(see figures 4 and 5).

For differentiation testing cells were seeded at at ~13888cells/cm^2 in
DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1xP/S and left for two days. Cells were then swapped to
either E6 media, DMEM/F12 + 2% HS + 1xP/S containing media or left in their
original seed media. Cells were then left to grow over 12 days with daily
media changes perfomed on cells growing in E6 or 2% HS containing media. Cells
left in their original seed media were left to starve for the full 12 days.
Cells were fixed in 4% PFA after 7 and 10 days, washed then stored under dPBS
at 4 degrees until day 12. On day 12 the final plate was fixed and all plates
were immunostained for MyoG and MF20 with a DAPI counterstain using an
overnight staining protocol. Cells were then imaged under the same zaber
imaging system under 555nm, 488nm and UV wavelengths. Fusion was observed in
all 2% HS and starvation samples at day 12 (Figure 6) as well as day 7 and 10
(data not shown). Samples in E6 showed signs of cell death, with decreasing
confluence observed over 12 days.




Figure 1: BUFFY6_25K6 clone. Images of the well containing the clone were
captured at 24h (A) and 72h (B) after sorting. Cell location was estimated by
manual inspection (red box) at 24h. Cell locations were estimated using a
machine learning model (blue boxes) at 72h.

  



Figure 2: BUFFY6_21L10 clone. Images of the well containing the clone were
captured at 24h (A) and 72h (B). Cell location was estimated by manual
inspection (red box) at 24h. Cell locations were estimated using a machine
learning model (blue boxes) at 72h.



Figure 3: Clone morphology after 22 days of culture. (A) BUFFY6_21L10. (B)
BUFFY6_25K6. Images were captured under 4x objective using a zeiss primovert
microscope.

Figure 4: BUFFY6_25K6 myogenic assay. Merged images show co localization of
MyoD with DAPI in nuclei in all cells. Images captured under 10x objective
using a zeiss axiovert microscope and Basler camera.  

Figure 5: BUFFY6_21L10 myogenic assay. Merged images show co localization of
MyoD with DAPi in nuclei of all cells. Images captured under 10x objective
using a zeiss axiovert microscope and Basler camera.  

Figure 6: BUFFY6_21L10 fusion after 12 days. DAPI (blue) and MF20 (grey). (A)
E6 media. (B) DMEM/F12 + 2% horse serum + 1xP/S media. (C) starvation
condition.




Discussion


Despite being our largest ever FACS sort undertaken at Vow to date, we only
generated two clonal cell lines after 22 days of culture. This is consistent
with the number of clones that reached MCB_2 banking stage during our last
DOLLY12 single cell cloning experiment despite having a 2.75 fold increase in
the number of clones sorted. This difference in clone yield may be the result
of biological differences between water buffalo and sheep muscle stem cells.
Sheep cells may have higher chances of spontaneously mutation that enable cell
longevity compared to water buffalo cells. Alternatively sheep cells may
naturally have more robust cell longevity, supporting a greater number of
divisions before senescence compared to water buffalo cells. Further
investigations into the genetics or transcriptome of these resulting clones
may provide insights into this issue.

Prior to FACS the BUFFY6 heterogeneous population were also showing reductions
in their doubling rates during their growth in suspension cultures (see
doubling calculator here). The cells exhibited a doubling rate per day of
0.498 after the first 5 days in suspension culture. This decreased by a 50% by
day 10, at which point the cells were subjected to the FACS sort. We have
consistently seen doubling rates and cell numbers in microcarrier cultures
decrease after 5 days of culture. This is likely the result of the
environmental selective pressure imposed on the cells by the suspension
culture. This added stress prior to FACS may have accounted for overall low
clone yields despite the increase in cells sorted initially.  

The BUFFY6_21L10 exhibited a high doubling rate in planar culture after 22
days, doubling almost once everyday on average. This may make it a suitable
candidate to begin working with in production processes. However, despite
undergoing two passaging events over 10 days in suspension culture prior to
FACS it is not yet known if these cells from this MCB_2 will exhibit the same
growth rate when returned to microcarrier suspension cultures. Future testing
will be required to validate this cell line's performance in suspension
culture once again.

Interestingly the starvation condition during the BUFFY6_21L10 differentiation
assay was able to promote high levels of fusion when observed against the
horse serum control. This is promising in that this method testing fusion has
significantly lower manual handling compared to our current culturing
procedure during E6 induced or 2% horse serum induced differentiation. This
method requires manual handling before fixation at the desired time point and
yields evidence of fusion after 7 days. The removal of p38 inhibitor may have
also contributed to the success of this starvation assay compared to the
previous attempt at differentiating DOLLY12_15D11 which used a similar
strategy. The paper from which this protocol originated also used primary
bovine muscle stem cells1, not dissimilar from our water buffalo BUFFY6 line
given similarities between bovids. Different species may therefore respond
differently to this starvation protocol as well.

Our E6 condition produced the lowest levels of fusion present in our
differentiation assay. Low confluence may have been the result of unexpected
cell death caused by problems in the composition or age of the E6 media. At
the time of this experiment there have also been reports within the science
team of unexpected cell death that may be linked to E6 media formulations (see
observations entry here). Investigations are ongoing into why E6 related cell
death has been observed amongst the team.

Finally due to the low number of BUFFY6_25K6 cells harvested after 22 days, no
differentiation testing was performed on this cell line at the time of
banking. Performing a differentiation assay would have required ~37% of the
total cell number harvested and left under 2.5x105 cells left for banking. To
avoid significant cell investment it was decided that if this clonal line was
to be used in the future, a differentiation assay should be performed after
either the first or second passage post thaw.


Limitations


Clones were moved to liquid nitrogen 9 days following their bank down to -80
degrees. This is 8 days past our ideal time to move to liquid nitrogen. It is
not known as to whether this extended time at -80 has affected their viability
or performance.

E6 media may have been compromised given other scientists in the team were
observing E6 related cell death. This may explain why fusion was low in the E6
condition relative to starvation and 2% HS control groups.

  


Conclusion


Despite this being our largest single cell cloning run to date, with 4224
wells sorted, we only ended up banking two clonal BUFFY6 cell lines. These
included BUFFY6_21L10, which reached 21.868 doublings, and BUFFY6_25K6, which
reached 18.502 doublings. Our BUFFY6_21L10 line was confirmed t be both
myogenic and able to maintain fusion capacity after cloning.  
  
We also found that our starvation protocol for differentiation assay was
suitable to test for differentiation and fusion in our BUFFY6_21L10 clone.

  
Finally we identified a liquid handling as a potential bottleneck in
increasing our clone handling capacity further, with passaging of 270 wells
requiring 12 hours of manual effort.


Future Direction(s)


  * To improve the number of clones that reach our banking stage we will need to improve our chances of generating high performing clones.  
  * Finding ways to reduce the manual liquid handling of 384 well plates will further improve our capacity to sort and expand more clones beyond
  * Both clones will need to be tested in suspension culture once more to assess their suitability for culture scale up. 
  * We should continue trialing the starvation differentiation protocol alongside our E6 and 2% horse serum media controls to investigate whether fusion response varies between species. 


References


1Stout, A. J., Mirliani, A. B., Soule-Albridge, E. L., Cohen, J. M., & Kaplan,
D. L. (2020). Engineering carotenoid production in mammalian cells for
nutritionally enhanced cell-cultured foods. Metabolic Engineering, 62,
126-137\. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymben.2020.07.011


