

Key differences between the two creatine experiments:

This report covers two experiments, both of which saw C2C12 cells die before
analysis could be made. Whilst the experiments have the same objective and
aim, there are slight differences in the experimental plan, notably the vial
type being thawed, seeding density and period of time in growth media and E6.
This is summarised in the table below.

  
Experiment 1Experiment 2  
  
Seeding density 5208 cells/per well  
4000 cells/per well  
Vial typeWCBMCB  
Days in growth media (prolif) 2 (seed on Wed, change to E6 on Fri)3 (seed on
Mon, change to E6 on Thurs)  
Days in E6 before death (diff) 4 (however could not check between day 1 - 3 as
it was during the long weekend)1  
Concentration range of creatine tested 0, 1, 5, 10 mM0, 5, 10, 20 mM  
  
  

Results

Experiment 1 (09/06 - 15/06)

11/06 Friday  \- day 0: switched from GM into E6

  

  

15/06 Tuesday- day 4: observed cell death in all wells (pictures in order of
E6, 1mM, 5mM, 10mM):

  

  

  

Experiment 2 (18/06 -  25/06)  

23/06 Wednesday - day -1: two days of proliferation

  

24/06 Thursday - day 0: switched from GM into E6

  

25/06 Friday - day 1: observed cell death in all wells (pictures in order of
E6, 5mM, 10mM, 20mM):

  

  

  

Discussion

For experiment 1, is it expected that the C2C12 WCB vials have been
compromised which have lead to the death of the C2C12. This is based on the
evidence that other experiments that have used C2C12 from the same WCB have
also witness cell death. In both instances, seeding conditions, media used and
date thawed were different, therefore it is unlikely this is due to human
errors in the thaw and seeding method, but rather an issue in the C2C12 WBC
vials. What is unexpected, is that the death of the C2C12 occurred during
different times in culture. For instance, the thaw for the gelatine experiment
and creatine experiment were done at the same time, by the same person,
however the C2C12 for the gelatine experiment died the day after the thaw,
whilst for the creatine experiment, this occured many days after (3 - 6 days
after). Another thing to note is that the exact death of the C2C12 is not
known for this particular experiment and we are only able to conclude that it
occurred anywhere between the first to the fourth day after changing the media
to E6. (unable to check due to long weekend).

For experiment 2, a C2C12 MCB vial was used instead. Unlike the previous
experiment where the C2C12 WCB vial seems to be compromised, it would appear
that this particular vial was not, despite the C2C12 dying in the experiment.
This is because alongside with the 96 well-plates that were seeded for this
experiment, the same batch of cells were also seeded into two other
experiments; scaffold experiment and maturation bioreaction experiment and saw
good growth.

It is therefore likely that the cause of cell death may be due to over-
confluency and inadequate amount of media for the given cell density. For the
maturation bioreaction experiment the C2C12 were seeded at a cell density of
1000 cells/cm2, however for the creatine experiment, these were seeded at 4000
cells/well or 12500 cells/cm2. 4000 cells/well is generally acceptable, and in
fact on the lower side of seeding densities, for a typically differentiation
assay using a 96 well plate. However, given that it was C2C12 that were used,
they tend to grow much faster than the typical primary cell line and therefore
require more media changes.

For this experiment, they were fed two days after seeding and appeared to look
health with the typical elongated morphology (refer to image on day -1).
However the following day, they appeared to have poor morphology, where most
were short and rounded, with some detached entirely (possibly dead). In
addition to this, the media was orange in colour, indicating that there was
not enough nutrients and that the media was becoming acidic, both of which are
likely causes that contributed to the cell


