

Experiment Plan:

  




# Procedure - Feed

# Note: Fibroblasts do NOT require Gelatin coated Flasks, and do NOT require
p38i.  

  1. Turn on the water bath and set to 37'C.
  2. Aliquot  required growth media into a sterile container/s and place into the water bath. 
  3. Place in the water bath and heat for at least 20 minutes.
  4. Observe the cell flasks for confluence under the microscope using 4 x magnification and take images as required. Note: The confluence of cells must be <50% to perform cell feeding in P1-P3 and <80% in P4 prior to the cell differentiation stage. 
  5. Transfer flasks to the BSC and remove required volume of media from each flask (according to the Table below).
  6. Replace the same volume into each flask with the prepared growth media.
  7. Return the flasks to the incubators

  
References  
  
BLT: VLBT-004 Media Change  
SOP: Section 8 under VSOP-008 Cell Feeding  

``


Feed 1 - VitC Treatment (50ug/mL)


Note on flasks when observed at 4x mag, phase contrast under the microscope:

Flasks did have some cells that did not adhere, or were just floating around
in the media, but these were occasional. Enough to notice them compared to
control and other groups (collagen/gelatin groups), but not enough to cause
concern to me while viewing them. Morphology was similar to the controls
overall, but with some slight differences. The cells appeared slightly shorter
and the clumps/groups that the cells grew in appeared more spread out/distant
from each other but thicker in terms of cell numbers but with larger ring-
shaped gaps between them. Overall there appears to be more cells in the flasks
from this group compared to the control group flasks, which appears to be a
positive outcome. See image below as a example of the morphology and visible
cells floating in the media that did not attach (or came off).

  


Feed 1 - VitC Treatment (5mg/mL)


Note on 5mg/mL Vitamin C flasks when observed at 4x mag, phase contrast under
the microscope:

There were a lot of cells that did not appear to stick down to the flask and
were floating in the media. The cells that had stuck down appeared to have a
different morphology compared to the control cells in that they appeared to be
longer, thinner and may have had a higher frequency of 'bright' cells (plump
cells with a halo effect - which may indicate cell division). The cells that
were adhered did look quite good, but there were significantly less compared
to the control and other treatment groups.

As an additional investigation into the floating cells, I collected the
supernatant from each flask after the feed (15 mL per flask) and spun it down
at 700G for 5 minutes in a single 50 mL tube. I then resuspended the  pellet
in 5 mL ofthe supernatant and took a 50 uL sample for Trypan blue staining to
see if the cells were alive or dead. See image #2 below, but the TLDR is that
almost all cells in the culture media appear to be dead.

Image#2 below: Trypan blue stained cells collected from the culture
supernatant - almost all of them are dead.

  


Feed 1 - Normal Feed


Note on flasks when observed at 4x mag, phase contrast under the microscope:

Control flasks - Nothing out of the ordinary, typical growth pattern and
morphology was observed. See image below for an example:

Collagen coated flasks - Cells appeared quite different to controls. Flatter,
less plump, less refractile in phase contrast and importantly, much more
confluent and evenly spread compared to the controls and VitC treatments. All
flasks in this group also had a common occurrence of long fibrous looking
structures that may or may not contain cells, see image below for an example.
This may be an artefact of the gelatin on the flask surface, or may be a cell-
formed structure as a result of the coating - unknown at this time.

  

Gelatin coated flasks - Cells also looked quite different in this group
compared to all others. Some similarities with the gelatin coated flasks in
that the cells appeared more confluent and flatter and less refractile in
phase contrast, but there were no visible fibrous structures present and each
cell overall appears shorter (not as long and stretched). See image below for
an example:




Note: LP realised the stickers for the flask IDs were swapped between collagen
and gletain coated flasks. These have now been corrected in the LA entries.


