

## Completed by: Katie




We are currently struggling to adapt adherent fibroblasts to grow in
suspension culture. Making that leap is absolutely critical if we are to scale
up production to be able to feed fifty investors by the end of the quarter
and, more importantly, if we are to achieve our mission of feeding billions of
people.

For suspension adaptation trials #1-4, we have attempted adapting DOLLY12
fibroblasts to suspension culture by including various media components
including anti-clumping agent, ROCK inhibitors, integrin binding proteins, and
pluronics. All DOLLY12 fibroblasts that we've attempted to adapt were grown
for at least 15 passages in adherent culture with 20% FBS. Thus, these cells
are accustomed to adherent cell culture and high volumes of FBS, and may have
been adapted to prefer these conditions.  
  
We have chicken fibroblasts that were previously grown up and banked down at
passage #2. In addition, we have an alpaca biopsy that was recently processed.
Pre-plating of the cells isolated from the alpaca biopsy will yield a
population of cell including fibroblasts that have spent very little time in
adherent cell culture. Thus, there may be a larger number of cells that are
prepared to adapt to suspension culture. We hope that by moving earlier stage
fibroblasts into suspension culture, we will be more successful at achieving a
fibroblast-adapted cell line.

Given that we will be starting with a smaller number of cells than we
typically do for suspension adaptations, we will have only two conditions for
each species. One condition will include the standard media that these cells
were isolated in, D/F + 10% FBS + 1x PS. The other condition will be our "best
guess" media based on previous suspension culture adaptation attempts #1-#4.
At this stage, I suspect this other condition will include 1:100 anti-clumping
agent, a ROCK inhibitor (revita cell or Y-27632), and integrin binding
peptides RGD/YIGSR in D/F + 10% FBS + 1x PS.

In addition, by looking at the alpaca fibroblasts straight from the biopsy
alongside the chicken fibroblasts which have been expanded for 2-3 weeks in
adherent culture to isolate them, we should get a good idea around whether
adapting straight from the biopsy (as per the alpaca) is better than purifying
the fibroblastic cells more fully over 1-2 weeks of culture, then adapting to
suspension (as per the chicken).

  

See: https://www.notion.so/vow/REC-RND-01-Suspension-
Experiment-2-0c9673e199c144a6b0ed0e695b4ba865  
For more details around thawing vials directly into suspension culture.  
  
  

Rough Proposal:

Take Alpaca fibroblasts straight from fibroblast pre-plate steps & move into
shaking media  
  
1 condition: D/F + 10% FBS + P/S + RGD + YIGSR + 1:100 anti-clumping + ROCKi
(this condition is the "best guess" based on how our suspension culture trials
#1-4 are going next week)

1 condition: D/F + 10% FBS + P/S

  

Take Chicken fibroblasts, thaw & expand them for 1 week, then move into
shaking media

1 condition: D/F + 10% FBS + P/S + RGD + YIGSR + 1:100 anti-clumping + ROCKi
(this condition is the "best guess" based on how our suspension culture trials
#1-4 are going next week)

1 condition: D/F + 10% FBS + P/S


