

Culture ID typ

Harvested Vessel Type(s)

Harvested Vessel ID(s)

Seeded Vessel Type(s)

Seeded Vessel ID(s)  
  
4 x 4CFs

7079-DOLLY12-Sheep P12-1of4

7080-DOLLY12-Sheep P12-2of4

7081-DOLLY12-Sheep P12-3of4

7082-DOLLY12-Sheep P12-4of4

2 x 96-well plates

1 x 48-well plate (to test adherent culture diff)

7136-DOLLY12-Sheep P13-1of1  
7137--Sheep P-2of2  
7139-DOLLY12-Sheep P13-1of1  
  
  




## Performed by: LL & AK  




Method/Procedure

Table of volumes:

Flask TypedPBS at 37˚C (washing)TrypledPBS ambient temp (neutralising)Media
for pellet resuspension and countTubes needed  
4CF800mL800mL800mL20 mL (1/4 dilution with trypan)24 x 50mL  
  
  




1\.  Turn on water bath and set temperature to 37˚C.

2\. Take the flasks for harvest and observe under the microscope for even cell
distribution and 50% confluency. Take 5 images per flask. Refer to VSOP006_0

3\.  Aliquot required volume of dPBS (37C) 800 ml , dPBS (ambient temp) 800
ml, TrypLE 800 ml, , 10C growth media 15 mL and serum-containing growth media
20 ml into separate sterile pots.

4\.  Place aliquots in pre-warmed water bath and leave for ~20 minutes or
until warmed. 13:25

NOTE - use the warmed dPBS is to wash the flask before the Tryple, this way we
don't cool down the flask before adding the warm tryple, so must ensure this
is warmed properly, also the tryple must be warmed properly before adding to
the flasks because the size of the 4CFs means that the 10 mins in the
incubator won't be enough to heat it all up and get the enzyme working




5\.  Transfer aliquots and flasks required for harvest into the BSC, ensuring
to wipe down containers with 70% EtOH during the transfer.  

6\. Unscrew white cap and remove blue cap from 4CF and place aside (high and
out of way within the BSC) carefully pour all of the media from the flask into
a 500ml waste pot.

(refer to this youtube vid to see how they pour out the growth media if you
are unsure:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ly21MtEyTKk&ab_channel=ThermoScientific)




7\.  Replace with  200 mL (per flask) of warmed dPBS by carefully pouring
through the white cap opening (alternatively you may use a 50mL serological to
add)

8\.  Screw caps back on and equalise each 4CF by placing it on its side (blue
cap on the bottom and white cap on the top, see image below:

9\.  Once flask has been washed carefully pour the dPBS into a 500ml waste
container.

10\.  Add/pour 200ml of pre-warmed TrypLE into each 4CF, equalise (as
explained above).

11\.  Incubate at 37˚C for 10 min. 13:58 - 14:18




12\.  After 5 minutes, remove flasks and observe for 95-100% dissociation of
cells under the microscope. If needed incubate further until maximum
dissociation level is reached.

NOTE: The flasks must be removed from the incubator within 10 minutes of
initial incubation of TrypLE containing flasks.  

13\.  Return flasks to the BSC, unscrew lids and place aside, then carefully
pour out the TrypLE solution from the flasks and collect into a sterile 500ml
container. Next, distribute the tryple/cell mix with a serological pipette
into x 50mL centrifuge tubes(labelled). The number of tubes will depend on
amount of flasks used for the harvest (8 tubes per 4CF).

14\.  Carefully pour  100ml of ambient dPBS into each flask, screw on lids,
equalise and wash flask (as explained above), gently mix then remove lids and
aspirate the entire volume by carefully pouring into a 500ml collection pot.
Refer to volumes required from above Table. Then distribute with a serological
pipette into 24 x 50mL centrifuge tubes(labelled).

15\.  Repeat previous 100ml  PBS wash step




16\.  Centrifuge tubes at 650 x g for 5 minutes. Start time time

Flasks 7079 & 7080: 14:28 - 14:33, flasks 7081 & 7082 14:37 - 14:42

17\.  Gently remove centrifuge tubes ensuring not to disturb the suspended
pellets and aspirate the supernatant from the tubes. Discard supernatant.
Remove remaining supernatant with a 1mL pipette.

Cells are now harvested.




Serum count: 18.376 M

ACF: 22.297 M




Observations/Summary:

\- Significantly fewer cells than expected from ACF culture

\- Cells looked good under microscope before passage

\- Cells received less than usual amount of food over weekend due to media
calculation error - this may have impacted growth

\- Taking reps down to n=3, removing one condition, and seeding at 0.7M cells
per scaffold




Media/Reagents used:

  

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
0.1% gelatin solutionNA  
  
Tryplem4588  
  
dPBS (for washing & neutralising)a5250, 5244, 5245  
  
Growth Mediam5369  
  
  
  




### Results:

  * Results were;
    * [ ]  As Usual (this is a repetitive task)
    * [x]  Unexpected because...very low cell harvest from ACF culture 
    * [ ]  Need to be further analysed
    * [ ]  Other (.......)




 Relevant Images/Figures (if applicable):


