

##  

Perform feed using below volumes:

  

  

  




## Feed performed by: kk




  

  * [x]  E6
  * [x]  E6 + 1mM Creatine
  * [x]  E6 + 5mM Creatine 
  * [x]  E6 + 10mM Creatine

Total media required: 7.5mL of each for 2 x 96 wp




Culture IDs to feed

Vessel type(s)  
Vessel ID  
  
96 well plate

  

7211-C2C12-Mouse P3-1of2  
7212-C2C12-Mouse P3-2of2  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  




Plate map:

  

  




Process:

1\. Aliquotted   7.5 mL  mL of  E6, 1mM creatine E6, 5mM creatine E6, 10mM
creatine E6   into   70 mL   sterile container. Placed in water bath   11:10 -
11:20  

2\. Using a multichannel pipette, removed   100 % of supernatant from vessel.
(you can use the same tips for the same conditions)

3\. Using a multichannel pipette with four tips attached, replaced with  140
uL  (per well) of  E6  media. (Four tips can fit into the 70 mL sterile
container). Repeat with remaining media in the correct columns. (Refer to
plate map)  

4\. Returned vessel to incubate at: 11:30

  * [x]  37ÂºC, 5% CO2 (mammalian cells)
  * Incubator (# Thermo ), Lab [Main]




### Observations/Summary:

 100 % media changed on vessel(s)

Growth media removed was orange in colour. This is unusual as the plates were
fed late afternoon yesterday (wednesday). What this indicates is that the
cells did not have enough media and metobolised the growth media components,
leaving an acidic environment, which is not ideal for cell growth. The cause
for this is likely to be a high seeding density (used 4K per well). Whilst we
have seeded cells this high before at 7K per well in a 96 wp for
differentiation assays, this was using primary cells. The C2C12 however
typically grow much more faster and therefore requires more media and should
be changed to E6 sooner.

The previous day, the C2C12 had good morphology in that they cells were
tightly packed, long in morphology and begining to fuse. Upon observing them
today, the C2C12 did not appear to be growing well. Most cells had a short and
round in morphology and appeared to be dying. Despite this, we changed the
media into E6 with varying concnetration of creatine to see if this would be
able to restore the C2C12 growth.

Interestingly, the C2C12 that were grown on a 60 mm dish and seeded at a lower
density of  1000 cells/cm2 showed good growth with cells having the typical
triangular morphology. Refer to images taken on Wednesday: https://mia-
capture.vow.tools/#/session/recmz5Um0GUMHDXWE/images






Media/Reagents used:

NameDetailsVolume used (mL)  
E65621  
  
  
 creatine2466  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  




### Results

  * Results were;
    * [x]  As Usual (this is a repetitive task)
    * [ ]  Unexpected because...
    * [ ]  Need to be further analysed
    * [ ]  Other (.......)




Relevant Images/Figures (if applicable):

7211

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recYh3efgpVPAWvXi/images

7212

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recaIXxg2QNRakkLD/images

  


