

## Completed by: AK


Aim/Purpose


To achieve proliferating suspension-adapted fibroblast cells using growth
media (DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S) containing either HDAC or hydrolysates
independently or in tandem.


Hypothesis


That HDACs and/or hydrolysates will enable DOLLY12 fibroblast cells in
proliferate and survive in suspension culture.


Technical Gap


Currently, the primary technical challenge is the inability for fibroblast
cells to proliferate in suspension culture for an extended period (> 14 days),
without a substantial loss in cell viability or cell numbers. In order to
accomplish our objective of generating at least 1 fibroblast cell line adapted
to suspension (according to our metrics), it's necessary to continuously
evaluate different media supplementations. Therefore to identify a promising
avenue that enable us to grow cells in suspension we will be assessing two new
compounds; HDACs and hydrolysates.


Method/Procedure


  1. Thaw 2x vials of DOLLY12 fibroblasts and seed 1M cells per T175 flask
  2. Perform a 50% feed ~24hrs following the cell thaw
  3. Passage fibroblast when at high confluence (>80% confluence) and seed at ~7K cells/cm2. This step will need to be repeated until sufficient cell numbers are reached, which will be 80M cells.
  4. Harvest the fibroblast cells and seed each of the conditions below into a separate 50 mL falcon spin tube at 1M cells per 1 mL. The total volume for each spin tube will be 10 mL therefore each condition will require 10M cell, hence the 80M cells required to seed every condition.

Conditions:

  1. Serum Control (DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1X P/S)
  2. HDAC 1 (0.1ug/mL)
  3. HDAC 2 (0.1ug/mL)
  4. HDAC 1 + HDAC 2 (0.1ug/mL)
  5. Hydrolysate 1 (BBL Phytone Peptone) 5 g/L
  6. Hydrolysate 2 (Difco Select Phytone UF) 5g/L
  7. Hydrolysate 1 (BBL Phytone Peptone) 5g/L + HDAC 1 (0.1ug/mL)  \+ HDAC 2 (0.1ug/mL) 
  8. Hydrolysate 2 (Difco Select Phytone UF) 5g/L \+ HDAC 1 (0.1ug/mL)  \+ HDAC 2 (0.1ug/mL)

*See information below on how to prepare each of the conditions. 

5\. Perform a 100% feed for each condition every three days, filtering the
cells through a 70 um filter unit prior to adding fresh media.

6\. Following the 17 day time point perform a cell count to determine total
cell numbers and cell viability.

  

Preparation of media conditions:

*All conditions, except for the serum control, will be in the same standard growth media which will be DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S. The only difference will be the HDAC and/or hydrolysate supplementation added. 

Prep of both hydrolysate stock solutions:

Before adding the hydrolysates into the media they will first have to be
prepared as a stock solution. To make it easier in determining how much of the
stock solution needs to added to the growth media its best to prepare a stock
solution of 10% (w/v) (i.e. 100g of hydrolysate in 1 L of Milli-Q water).
Fortunately, if 1 L of solution is not required the volume can be easily
adjusted.

1\. Retrieve hydrolysates from the cell expansion fridge - BBL Phytone Peptone
Stock #372 and Difco Select Phytone UF Stock #3489.

2\. Weigh out 5 g of each hydrolysate.

3\. Add the 5 g powder to 50 mL of Milli-Q water. According to this technical
sheet the hydrolysates should be soluble in purified water and the solution
should appear to be clear to slightly hazy.

4\. Sterile filter the dissolved hydrolysate solution through a 0.22 um filter
unit. This concentrate can then be used to add the hydrolysates into the
growth media.

5\. Store solution at 4'C for 2-4 weeks.  

Please make sure that whenever media containing hydrolysates is required, that
it is prepared on or as close to the day its required as possible. In order to
make media with hydrolysates at 5g/L just add 0.5 mL (500 uL) of the
hydrolysate concentrate to 9.5 mL of growth media.


