

Perform feed using below volumes:




## Performed by: AK & EH  




Harvesting fibroblast ECM scaffolds:

Following the overnight dry of the fibroblast ECM scaffolds, potential
scaffolds were assessed for thickness, structural integrity and general
suitability to serve as scaffolds. Of all the conditions only four were deemed
worthy of taking forward as scaffolds. These were samples 1.4, 1.8, 2.4, 2.8 -
each belonging to the conditions that were seeded in the collagen gel/media
matrix (see below for how they were harvested). The remainder were discarded.
Because the scaffolds sheets were strongly adhered to the culture surface
following the overnight dry they were rehydrated with 5 mL of DMEM for about 1
hr.

Process:

1\. Aspirate the growth media from each of the petri dishes.

2\. Using a blunt spatula scrape the edges of the gel to peel if from the
edges of the petri dish.

3\. Carefully using a sterile scalpel and the spatula cut the gel into 8-10
equal sized pieces and place them in the wells of a 48-well plate as detailed
in the plate map.

4\. Leave the lids slightly ajar to allow the scaffolds to dry until they are
seeded with MuSC.




Seeding was performed according to the new experimental plan (see previous lab
book entry for full details).  
  
Condition 1 (C1) = 1.8 and 2.8

Condition 2 (C2) = 1.4 and 2.4

  

Total ACF cells needed = 18.4M

Total Serum cells needed = 18.4M    (NOTE - If we do not have enough serum
cells only do n=3 serum for each seeding density and use extra samples as cell
free or add as an extra ACF replicate)

  

  

  




Growth Media:

[x] Serum = DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1X P/S + 10 uM p38i

[x] ACF = E8 10C

  




Seeding

NOTE - When seeding make up at least 3 samples worth of excess cell sup, so as
not  to run low and run out when seeding final scaffolds (common).  
  
NOTE - Seed scaffolds with a volume which is sufficient to cover and saturate
the sample without liquid run-off. It is suggested that prior to the seed day
that volumes of media are tested on spare scaffolds to ensure the correct
volume is employed. For flat, thin, 96-well sized scaffolds 50-60ul volumes of
cell suspension are used for seeding.  
  
NOTE- After cell seeding wait 30min for cells to settle before adding the
remaining growth media (for 96 wp seeded with 50ul of cell suspension and
extra 210ul of growth media is added 30min after seeding) - the size of the
scaffold will influence how much media can be added to the well, see below.

Cell requirements

Average total cells in suspension (ACF) : 18,400,000  

Average total cells in suspension (serum control) : 18,400,000  

Link to harvest lab book: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjU4NC40fDEwNjMxNy8xOTg4L1RyZWVOb2RlLzMxMDQ4MzI2MjV8NjU2MC40

Actual cell numbers:

 Total cells in suspension (ACF) : 19,965,000 in 20 mL of ACF media  

 Total cells in suspension (serum control) : 17,928,000 in 8 mL of serum media  

  

Cell suspension required

ACF   8   wells x    1.5 M   cells =    12 M cells    :  Total cell suspension
required:   10.63830    mL

Serum   8   wells x    1.5 M   cells =   12 M cells    : Total cell suspension
required:  5.33333     mL

ACF   8   wells x    0.8 M   cells =    6.4 M cells    : Total cell suspension
required:   5.67376    mL

Serum   8   wells x    0.8 M   cells =   6.4 M cells    : Total cell
suspension required:  2.66666     mL

Each volume of cell suspension (total 4) was aliquoted in a separate 15 mL
falcon tube and spun down to pellet the cells. This pellet was then
resuspended in fresh media in the step below.

  

Media requirements (pre-warmed)

Re-suspension of cell pellet:

(Note: typically between 50 - 60 uL of growth media (for each scaffold) for
pellet re-suspension)

Total media required (condition   ACF   ):   16   well x    1 x 48-well
plate x   0.060  mL growth media =       0.96  mL  
  
Total media required (condition   Serum   ):   16    well x    1 x 48-well
plate x   0.060 mL growth media =     0.96 mL

  

1\. Resuspend each pellet in 0.48 mL (half of 0.96 mL because each tube was
separate) of the respective growth media

2\. Add 50 uL of cell suspension to each well according to the plate map
above.

  

Media top up :

(Note: typically 950 uL of growth media for top up in 48-well plate, however
it can be more or less depending on the size of the scaffold)

Total media required (condition   ACF   ):   16   well x    1 x 48WP    plate
x   950 uL growth media =     ~15.2  mL  
  
Total media required (condition   serum    ):  20 (for cell free scaffolds)
well x     1 x 48WP   plate x 950 uL growth media =     ~ 17.1  mL




  

  1. Transfer the above volume of cell suspension into separate 15 mL centrifuge tubes
  2. Centrifuge at 650 x g for 5 minutes :    17:15 - 17:20       

  3. Aspirate supernatant 
  4. Resuspend cell pellet in the corresponding amounts of media. 
  5. Seed scaffold with 50 uL of cell suspension and allow to incubate in the BSC for 30 minutes   17:45     

  6. Top with 950 uL of media and transfer into incubator      18:22      




Media/Reagents used:  

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
DMEMS969  
  
Growth Media (Serum)  
A5369  
  
Growth Media (ACF)  
A5568  
  
p38i  
M5607  
  
  
  




### Results:

  * Results were;
    * [x]  As Usual (this is a repetitive task)
    * [ ]  Unexpected because...
    * [ ]  Need to be further analysed
    * [ ]  Other (.......)




Observations/Summary:

\- Despite the slightly lower cell numbers obtained from the cell harvest of
the serum cells n=4 samples were seeded for each of the different conditions
i.e. 1.5M C1, 0.8M C1, 1.5M C2 and 0.8M C2. This means that in reality the
serum conditions were seeded at slightly lower densities than the intended
1.5M or 0.8M.

\- Following the overnight drying in the BSC all the samples except the
collagen seeded fibroblast had shrunk to a minuscule size (roughly 0.5 cm x
0.5 cm) and thus too small to be viable as a scaffold and as a result were
discarded.

\- Following the overnight dry in the BSC the collagen seeded samples (1.4,
1.8, 2.4, 2.8) were strongly adhered to the culture growth surface and
therefore were rehydrated with 5 mL of DMEM for approximately 1 hr.

\- It is necessary to note that when cutting up the scaffolds the size of the
scaffolds themselves were not precisely controlled for but rather visualised
by eye to create them all as homogenous as possible.

\- Following the rehydration the collagen seeded petri dishes the gel had a
uniform texture similar to jelly which made it easier to cut up the gel into
similar sized pieces. Once seeded into the 48-well plates the scaffolds could
be pressed into flatter pieces that could cover the surface of the 48-well
plate.

\- It is not recommended to seed scaffolds in 48-well plates. Due to some
scaffolds not covering the majority of the well surface meant that the cell
suspension that was dispensed could run off the scaffold and onto the growth
surface, therefore its more appropriate the seed scaffolds in 96-well plates
to minimise this as much as possible.  




Relevant Images/Figures:

The four images above are photos taken of the conditions, minus the collagen
seeded conditions, following the overnight dry in the BSC. Most, if not all,
of the samples are greatly reduced in size shrinking to miniscule fragments of
their former selves. Due to their small size none of these samples were taken
forward as scaffolds and discarded.

  



Representative images of the collagen seeded petri dishes following
rehydration in DMEM for ~1 hr. Texture of the samples was similar to that of
jelly and was quite easy to scrape of the culture surface and form uniform
scaffolds.

  

Images of scaffolds in the wells of the 48-well plate. Due to some scaffolds
being slightly small compared to the well surface caused some of the cell
suspension to run off the scaffold and onto the well surface.


