

## Completed by: Chris


Aim/Purpose


To assess if we can precipitate Nuvonis cell suspensions using flocculants.The
resulting aggregation is intended to promote ECM secretion and provide an
otherwise smooth cell suspension with additional biomass and texture.


Hypothesis


Clarification techniques from scientific literature can be applied in an
industrial context (at scale) to flocculate cells. The flocculation will
provide texture to the centrifugate due to cells excreting ECM after
flocculation (semi-adherent state)

chrome-
extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Kenneth-
Kang-5/publication/280256601_What_can_cell_culture_flocculation_offer_for_antibody_purification_processes/links/56800a1f08ae1e63f1e944e9/What-
can-cell-culture-flocculation-offer-for-antibody-purification-processes.pdf


Technical Gap


We have no data supporting the hypotheses that:

1\. our cells are compatible with the flocculants

2\. an E flask model system (if successful) is an indication the same
phenomenon may be transferable to 25/200/2000L bioreactors

3\. the texture provided is desirable

4\. cells will supply sufficient ECM to provide significant textural benefits


Method/Procedure


Experiment Timeline:

  1. obtain viable Nuvonis suspension cells from Program1/2
    1. transfer equal volumes into E flasks and allow to equilibrate/proliferate further for 1 day (or longer?). This is to get the cells used to the new environment.
    2. alternatively thaw vials directly into E flasks and let proliferate for 1 week?
  2. Once desired cell density is reached (there might be a minimum density required for flocculation to work?!), add flocculants
  3. If flocculation occurs, allow precipitates to continue in culture for x days to allow for ECM deposition
  4. harvest all flasks and compare biomass yield.
  5. Assess texture using scientific tools or tasting experiments.

  

Flocculation conditions Calcium Phosphate:

Calcium chloride and dipotassium hydrogen phosphate were purchased from
Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. The 5 M calcium chloride and 2 M
dipotassium hydrogen phosphate were prepared as stock solutions. First, the 5
M calcium chloride was added to the shake flask of 30 mL CCF containing the
mAb1 to reach the desired concentration. Then, the flask was mildly shaken for
2 min followed by addition of 2 M dipotassium hydrogen phosphate to reach the
desired concentration. The addition order of calcium chloride and dipotassium
hydrogen phosphate could be reversed.

In brief, Chen et al., showed that the addition of calcium ions at 15-60 mM
was sufficient for flocculation at a pH of 7.

In more detail, as the concentration of calcium ions and phosphate ions
increased, the turbidity reduced. High turbidity reduction was observed at
high concentrations of calcium ions and phosphate ions. The turbidity reduced
significantly with increase of the concentration of calcium ions, indicating
that calcium ions played an important role in turbidity reduction. As the
concentration of phosphate ions increased, a lower turbidity reduction was
achieved. A higher turbidity reduction was seen when the phosphate ions added
were below 50 mM, indicating that addition of phosphate ions prior to calcium
ions could induce larger particles precipitation and result in improvement of
clarification efficiency.

  

targets:

1\. Calcium  15-60mM

2\. Phosphate <50mM

  

Materials:

  


