

## Completed by: Ella




Writeup also found here: https://www.notion.so/vow/Flocculation-for-texture-
reading-notes-EH-30a70fe49f1841c880cf545ec783f7b7

Flocculation is the collection of cells into aggregates by the addition of
multivalent cations, metal salts or polymers.

Flocculation allows for an easier separation of cells and cell debris. For
example, when producing antibodies in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, the
antibody product is expressed into the supernatant, and the induction of flock
formation enables easier cell removal without compromising product yield.

At Vow we are interested in the idea of flocculation as a means of unifying
cell mass and creating texture (i.e. an improved meat like mouth feel when our
cells are cooked and eaten).

Since mammalian cell surfaces are negatively charged, flocculation is usually
performed using cationic polymers to bridge the particles. Common polymers
used for cell flocculation include polyethylenimine (PEI),
polydiallyldimethylammonium chloride (pDADMAC), polyamines and chitosan.

Considering we intend to use flocculation to form a food product we are only
interested in flocculants that are edible, non-toxic and non-animal derived.
Flocculants that potentially meet these criteria include:

1 Chitosan

2\. Calcium Phosphate

3.polydiallyldimethylammonium chloride (PDADMAC)







# PDADMAC (cationic poymer)

Lower cytotoxicity than PEI but still cytotoxic.

See: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Kenneth-
Kang-5/publication/280256601_What_can_cell_culture_flocculation_offer_for_antibody_purification_processes/links/56800a1f08ae1e63f1e944e9/What-
can-cell-culture-flocculation-offer-for-antibody-purification-processes.pdf




# Chitosan

Chitosan is an ideal flocculant for biotechnology applications as it is
inexpensive (∼$60/kg) produced from non-mammalian sources, a food grade
material, and is also available in a highly purified form that is low in heavy
metals, volatile organics and microbial materials.

Chitosan is a polymer of deacetylated chitin. The deacetylation imparts
limited solubility on insoluble chitin and the amino groups on the polymer
result in a polycationic material at acidic and neutral pH that can interact
with polyanions, such as DNA and cell culture debris (typically negatively
charged). Likely the interaction of chitosan with cell culture particulate
forms a germinal center for further interaction and agglomeration of
particulates thereby reducing the solubility of these materials resulting in
their settling out into the solid phase.

The use of chitosan as a flocculant with mammalian cells was investigated by
Riske et al., 2006. Riske et al., performed multiple experiments to identify
the appropriate conditions for flocculation including chitosan content (w/v),
pH, neutral salt concentration and settling time.

In brief, the preferred condition for the flocculation of cells and debris
from NS0 cell culture harvest was >30 min of 0.02 to 0.06% chitosan exposure
(in acetic acid), 0-0.2 M additional NaCl and a pH range of 5.5-7.5.

Whereas ≥300 mM and a pH of >7.5 increased turbidity. Suggesting that
flocculation of chitosan and cellular debris was inhibited by an ionic
interaction between Cl− and polymer, or Na + and negatively charged debris (at
the neutral pH of the harvest,∼7.0-7.4) and that hydroxide ion interaction
with polymer also interfered with debris polymer flocculation.

The chitosan used in the work by Riske et al., 2006. is from arthropod shells
i.e. it is animal derived (and a common allergen). It will be important for
our purposes that we use fungal chitosan. Furthermore, the natural sourcing of
chitosan could lead to variability between lots of the flocculant as well as
the potential for introduction of impurities from environmental sources, and
this should be considered in our decision for a flocculant moving forward.

.

  * Further details of these experiments is noted below.

In the Riske et al., study chitosan was added to an NS0 cell (rodent cancer
cell line) culture harvest containing a ∼160,000 Da IgG4 monoclonal antibody
(MAb) of pI 6.2-6.8, the material allowed to flocculate, and the flocculants
separated by continuous flow centrifugation followed by depth and absolute
filtration.

Chitosan is not directly soluble in water but is soluble in acidic solutions.
A 1% chitosan stock solution (50-200 mPas at 20 ◦C) was prepared by dissolving
chitosan powder in 1% acetic acid (w/v) and stirring the material for several
hours.

In an initial set of experiments the appropriate conditions for flocculation
including chitosan content (w/v), pH, neutral salt concentration and settling
time were determined in 0.25 L flasks with 0.20 L of harvest.

In these initial experiments, chitosan was added to a final concentration of

0.05-1% (w/v) at about 0.05-0.2 L/L of harvest/min, to NS0 harvest containing
an IgG4 MAb (0.5-1 g/L). In these experiments the Chitosan-treated harvest was
stirred for 30 min and then allowed to stand for1 h. A sample of the
supernatant was removed and the

absorbance measured at 600 nm (A600nm ), a metric for material turbidity. The
absorbance of harvest without chitosan addition was the control.

After choosing the appropriate settling time for chitosan harvest interaction
low speed centrifugation (200 × g) for 5 min was used to rapidly separate the
particulate material in the next three experiments.

These experiments were performed to determine the appropriate harvest
conditions and chitosan amount for maximal particulate flocculation in NS0
cell culture harvest.

In the first experiment chitosan at 0-0.1% (v/v) was added to harvest (pH
7.4). In

the second experimental set the harvest was previously adjusted to a pH of
5.0-9.0 and chitosan was added to a final concentration of 0.02%. In the third
experiment, harvest was previously adjusted with additional NaCl (0-800 mM)
and chitosan was added to a final

concentration of 0.02%. In all three experiments, a 1% chitosan stock solution
was added at 5-10 ml/min to 200 ml aliquots of harvest (250 ml beakers), the
samples stirred for 30 min and then an aliquot removed and particulates
separated by centrifugation. The A600nm of

the supernatants was used as the metric of material clarity.

A reduction in supernatant turbidty (A600nm ) was noted at all chitosan
concentrations

studied but was optimal at 0.02% and 0.05% chitosan. Thirty minutes of
chitosan-harvest interaction, prior to solid separation, was sufficient for a
marked reduction

in supernatant turbidity.

Based on the results of these experiments a condition of 0.02% chitosan
addition to unadjusted (pH and NaCl) cell culture harvest was chosen for
further evaluation by continuous flow centrifugation followed by normal flow
filtration on depth and absolute filters. In these studies, 20 ml of a 1%
chitosan stock was added (50-200 ml/min) per litre of stirred harvest (100 rpm
using a 7.6 cm marine impeller) contained in a 50 L polypropylene circular
container (Nalgene). The material was mixed for 30 min and then separated
(14-24 L at 0.3-0.5 L/min) at 8200-9470 rpm using a disk stacked continuous
flow centrifuge.

Particulate flocculation was greatest at 0.02-0.05% chitosan.

The concentration of chitosan was then set to 0.02% and a neutral salt (NaCl)
range was studied. Supernatants were assayed for antibody concentration and
for turbidity (A600nm ). The chitosan flocculation of debris was most
effective at NaCl additions of ≤200 mM (340 mM total NaCl as the media
contains140 mM NaCl). The turbidity increased at ≥300 mM

NaCl addition suggesting that the flocculation of chitosan and cellular debris
was inhibited by an ionic interaction between Cl− and polymer, or Na + and
negatively charged debris (at the neutral pH of the harvest,∼7.0-7.4).

In the last experiment of this series the concentration of chitosan was fixed
at 0.02%, additional NaCl was not added and the pH of the harvest was adjusted
to set points between pH 5.0 to pH 9.0. Supernatants were assayed for antibody
concentration and for turbid-

ity (A600nm ). Chitosan flocculation was most effective at a pH range of
5.5-7.5. At pH > 7.5 the turbidity increased dramatically suggesting hydroxide
ion interaction with polymer interfering with debris polymer flocculation.

  * Purchasing Chitosan




# Calcium Chloride & potassium phosphate

Recently, the addition of "generally recognized as safe" flocculation reagents
such as calcium chloride and potassium phosphate has been studied to avoid
potential issues related to polymer or residual monomer toxicity and the need
for their removal through subsequent purification steps.

These two compounds, when combined, produce calcium phosphate, which is
insoluble and can interact with proteins through ionic and metal-chelate
interactions. The amount required can be very low, e.g., 20-60 mM calcium
chloride with an equimolar amount of phosphate added to form calcium phosphate
(Coffman et al., 2006).

The mechanism is thought to be related to the co-precipitation of calcium
phosphate with cells, cell debris and impurities.

Coffman J. Flocculation of antibody-producing mammalian cells with
precipitating solutions of soluble cations and anions. International
Conference on Recovery of Biological Products XII. Abstact # M3; 2006 Apr 2
-7; Litchfield, Arizona.

As mentioned in link.

The use of calcium phosphate flocculation with mammalian cells was
investigated by Chen et al., 2017. In this study, flocculation by calcium
phosphate was investigated in the harvest process of ATF perfusion Chinese
hamster ovary (CHO) cell culture fluid (CCF) with high cell densities and
product titers, to improve clearance of cell and cell debris, and reduce
process and product-related impurities. Moreover, the effects of flocculation
conditions (flocculant concentration, addition order of flocculants, pH,
operation time) on the turbidity and mAb recovery yield in the CCF were
determined in the flocculation process.

Calcium chloride and dipotassium hydrogen phosphate were purchased from
Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. The 5 M calcium chloride and 2 M
dipotassium hydrogen phosphate were prepared as stock solutions. First, the 5
M calcium chloride was added to the shake flask of 30 mL CCF containing the
mAb1 to reach the desired concentration. Then, the flask was mildly shaken for
2 min followed by addition of 2 M dipotassium hydrogen phosphate to reach the
desired concentration. The addition order of calcium chloride and dipotassium
hydrogen phosphate could be reversed.

The effect of addition order of calcium chloride and dipotassium hydrogen
phosphate on flocculation efficiency was also examined in this study. After
the CCF was adjusted to the required pH with solid Tris base and 2 M acetic
acid, the flask was shaken in an Innova-2000 shaker (New Brunswick) at 150 rpm
for predefined time. Solid Tris base was used to avoid much change of volume
in flocculation. The CCF was then centrifuged (Beckman Coulter centrifuge
Avanti J-26 XP) at 8000 rpm for 10 min for separation of precip- itate from
supernatant. The turbidity was measured by a Hach 2100Q portable turbidimeter.

In brief, Chen et al., showed that the addition of calcium ions at 15-60 mM
was sufficient for flocculation at a pH of 7.

In more detail, as the concentration of calcium ions and phosphate ions
increased, the turbidity reduced. High turbidity reduction was observed at
high concentrations of calcium ions and phosphate ions. The turbidity reduced
significantly with increase of the concentration of calcium ions, indicating
that calcium ions played an important role in turbidity reduction. As the
concentration of phosphate ions increased, a lower turbidity reduction was
achieved. A higher turbidity reduction was seen when the phosphate ions added
were below 50 mM, indicating that addition of phosphate ions prior to calcium
ions could induce larger particles precipitation and result in improvement of
clarification efficiency.

As the pH decreased from 7 to 5, the turbidity reduced due to precipitation
induced by pH but pH 7 was more suitable for flocculation than pH 5 or 6. In
this study for the CCF with different turbidity levels, the operation time of
120 min was, therefore, sufficient for turbidity reduction.

Concerns:

If we were to pursue calcium phosphate as a flocculant we will need to
research what level is safe in food. Calcium phosphate has a chalky texture
and results in a rigid and granular precipitate that may be undesirable in our
food (Felo et al., 2015).

Other considerations:

Calcium phosphate is a good source of calcium and could be pitched as a health
benefit (especially valid for plant based diets which without dairy based
milk, yoghurt and cheese can be lacking in calcium).


