

Humidity

Opinions on the optimal humidity for egg incubation varies between breeders
however eggs are relatively tolerant to some fluctuation in humidity.
Generally speaking, when humidity is too high, too little water evaporates
from the egg resulting in a small air cell, and insufficient gas exchange.
When humidity is too low, the opposite may occur, with the embryo becoming
dehydrated, stunting their growth. Dehydration can also cause the embryo to
stick to the shell. In reality, it is difficult to retain precise control over
humidity unless you have a very advanced incubator or maintain a very close
eye on it. For our purposes (as we do not intend to carry the eggs through to
hatch), maintaining humidity within +/- 10% of the optimal level should be
sufficient.

Temperature

Temperature conditions are far more critical to successful incubation than
humidity. It is critical that eggs do not get too hot or too cold (to a lesser
extent) during incubation as this will significantly inhibit their
development.  

The following table below is to be used as a guide.   Values listed in the
table below were taken from http://game-birds.com/incubationchart.html, and
https://www.purinamills.com/chicken-feed/education/detail/hatching-eggs-at-
home-a-21-day-guide-for-baby-chicks. Other sources, including the Brinsea
recommend lower humilities of 40-50% for poultry and 50-55% for waterfowl.

SpeciesTemperatureOptimal % Humidity (RH)Natural incubation period (days)Notes  
Bob-White Quail

37.5

60-6522-23  
  
King Quail60-6518-23  
  
Jumbo Japanese Quail

60-65

17-18  
  
Pheasants60-6522-25  
  
Chukar Partridge60-6523  
  
Turkey60-6528  
  
Chicken

50-55

21Humidity up to 75% is fine  
Guinea Fowl50-5628  
  
Duck

70-75

35-37

Khaki Campbell ducks have a shorter incubation period of approx. 28 days  
  
Ostrich

35.5

30-3542

May need de-humidifier depending on environmental humidity  
  
Emu30-3550-56  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  




Incubation Period before cell isolation.

The day at which we aim to isolate cells is calculated 1/3 of the total
natural incubation time. Early isolation should in theory allow us to take
full advantage of embryonic cells high proliferation rate, and increased
amenability to suspension adaption. By 1/3 normal incubation, the embryos will
already have developed a rudimentary form of all of its all anatomical
features. This is advantageous because in future, it will allow us to extract
any cell type that we desire from the frozen homogenate.




Egg turning

When incubating eggs for hatching, eggs are periodically turned to mimic the
practice of the hen who regularly moves the eggs within the nest. Egg turning
facilitates the diffusion of gasses and metabolites between the internal and
external environment of the egg, and prevents the embryo from sticking to the
shell. Vows egg incubators have automatic turners, and eggs should be ret to
rotate 90 degrees at least every 2hrs, Eggs should not be repeatedly turned in
the same direction as this can cause chalaza to become wound up/break.


