

## Completed by: VP


Aim/Purpose


To determine an optimal impeller tip speed (m/s) for Nuvonis suspension cells
cultured in a stir-tank setting in 3:1 RPMI:Hycell media formulation


Hypothesis


Cells will demonstrate a preference for a particular tip speed (m/s)
demonstrated by a faster doubling time at this speed


Technical Gap


Vow has successfully completed tech transfer of quail suspension cells
purchased from Nuvonis for culturing and expanding cells in shake flasks.
Minimal optimisation has been carried out for culture of quail suspension
cells in bioreactor conditions including agitation and gas sparging. 'Tip
speed' is a metric which describes the speed of the impeller in a stir-tank
(the tip speed is equal to pi x diameter (m) x agitation (cycles per sec) to
give a speed in m/sec). Impeller tip speed influences mixing time and oxygen
transfer as well as how cells are kept in suspension. Usually tip speed
(rather than agitation speed) is kept constant across scales. Optimisation is
required to maximise mass transfer, and minimise shear force to cells. Thus,
this experiment aims to compare the growth of quail suspension cells in the
current best performing in-house media formulation across a range of impeller
tip speeds.


Method/Procedure


Process

  

Day 0

  1. Hydrate vessels overnight (over weekend)  
    * Clean hardware with 70-80% EtOH. Do not spray directly into the vessel ports or onto the hardware. Spray onto sterile lint-free wipe only and wipe down
    * Bring sterile vessels into BSC 
    * Add 195mL media per vessel to hydrate (growth factors and anti-foam are not required at this stage)
    * Ensure all openings and clamps are sealed before removing from the BSC
    * Place vessels in hardware overnight or over weekend
    * It is not necessary to open the run time software. This can be started on the day of inoculation. 

Day 1

  1. Turn on TCU (temperature control unit) before run set up or inoculation. Ensure temperature of TCU is set to 0degC
  2. Open the run-time software and load the Vow_1 protocol. This protocol contains the essential steps for proper bioreactor set up. All parameters including agitation, gassing/sparging and control loops can be edited from the run-time software before starting
  3. Connect the pH probes to the hardware
  4. Load the bioreactors and engage all
  5. Select the 'Process' tab -> 'Vow 1' -> locate the 'Conditioning and Calibration' tab -> select 'Stir speed on' step / phase -> right click 'Edit' -> select the RPMs that are being tested
  6. Under the 'Set point' enter the following parameters: 200, 300, 400, 500 (RPM for the four bioreactors respectively)
  7. Edit the volumes of the batch by selecting 'Vow 1' -> 'Volumes' -> 'Batch media' in the 'Components' table -> change the volume to 190 mL

  8. Set up the reservoirs:

    1. Select 'Process' -> 'Vow 1' -> 'Pumps A-E'

    2. Assign the role of 'Pump A' as the feed (consisting of 3:1 R:H + GFs + antifoam)

    3. Assign the role of 'Pump B' as the base (1M sodium bicarbonate)

    4. Ensure the remainder of the pumps are marked as 'Not used'

  9. Select 'Process' and explore around the screen to locate the 'Steps on days within phase' table and change the sample volume to 2 mL (1 mL x 2; once to purge the line and another to take the sample)

  10. Delete any 'Calculated antifoam bolus' steps (as the AF will be added to the feed media at a higher concentration to dose the entire bioreactor volume during scheduled feeds)  

  11. Start bioreactors
  12. Enter spot calibration data using QR code and webcam -> Save data
  13. Go to 'Bioreactor 1' -> select 'Borrow' -> choose all bioreactors and press 'Disengage' (make sure to remove the headplate and pH probe)
  14. Fill Reservoirs A and B with feed media (+ GFs + antifoam) and base respectively inside a BSC, 20mL per reservoir
  15. Return the vessels to the AMBR system and attach headplates and pH probe
  16. Select 'Bioreactor 1' -> press 'Return' -> select 'All bioreactors' -> press 'Engage'
    * Let the system warm up the media inside the vessel (may need to wait 20-30 mins for the 'Wait until at temperature' step)

    * If it fails, select 'Failed bioreactors' -> then press 'Retry' (this will add in a duplicate step to repeat the failed step)

    * For any step that takes too long, the wait time can be changed by going to 'Process' -> selecting the relevant step in the 'Conditioning and calibration' table (e.g. 'Check for pH drift') -> 'Edit' -> 'Timing' -> select 'Maximum wait time' (e.g. 2m, 5m) -> 'oKaY'

    * To change the pH set point and dead band:

    * Go to 'Process' -> 'Vow 1' -> 'Control loops' -> Edit 'pH lower' and 'pH upper'; from this menu, the CO2 gas flow rate can also be changed by editing the 'Maximum (mL / min)' - can be used to alter the rate at which the pH changes

    * Go to 'Bioreactor 1' -> 'pH' -> 'Set' -> change set point

  17. Sample 5mL from each bioreactor for pH offset calibration
    1. Follow prompts to sample from each bioreactor. Draw 5mL and deposit in 50mL falcon tube
    2. use offline pH probe to measure pH for each reactor
    3. Follow prompts to enter offline pH calibration value for each reactor
    4. allow system to calibrate pH before adding inoculum
  18. Once pH is within spec, borrow bioreactors and add inocculum at 100k/mL (=20M cells in 10mL). This will bring total volume of reactor to 200mL
  19. Return bioreactors and engage all
  20. Follow prompts to sample 2mL from each bioreactor. Purge the line by drawing 1mL and discarding. Draw 1mL again and deposit into 1.5mL tube
  21. Cell count offline and record

Days 2-5

  1. Follow prompts to sample 2mL from each bioreactor. Purge the line by drawing 1mL and discarding. Draw 1mL again and deposit into 1.5mL tube
  2. Cell count offline and record

Day 5

  1. Packdown bioreactors
  2.   




Culture parameters & calculations:

See bioprocess calculator for sums and formulae.

Antifoam

Previously used in 2, 200 and 2000L bioreactors at 1:10 000. Equates to 20uL
in 200mL of media in each reactor. Feed schedule to offset x2 1mL draw every
day will contain antifoam at a volume to dose the entire 200mL reactor volume
(i.e. 20uL in every 2mL delivered, equates to 200uL antifoam in 20mL total
feed/antifoam reservoir

Air sparging

Previously used 50L/min in 2000L reactor. This equates to 0.1 vvm (vvm =
volume of air sparged per unit volume of growth media per minute, calculated
by dividing airlfow rate (L/min) by total media volume (L)). e.g. 0.02 mL/min
รท 2L = 0.01

0.1 vvm in 200mL scale is equal to 20mL/min flow rate

Agitation

RPMs to be tested: 150, 250, 350, 450 RPM. Previously used tip speeds used in
2-2000L bioreactors include 0.2 - 0.7 m/s. AMBR250 manual recommends speeds
between 150-500 RPM for mammalian cell culture.

Above: from AMBR250 operation manual

  


