

# How to write a Vow experimental report

When we invest time, energy and resources into experiments at Vow, we learn a
great deal of information throughout. This information can be lost if we do
not take the time to put into writing exactly what we did, how we did it and
what we learned.

An experimental report should be open for every Vowzer to access, read and
understand the following:

  * why we did a certain experiment
  * how we went about planning and executing it
  * what the outcomes were / lessons learned
  * what the next steps are moving forward

We break these up into 6 sections in a report that should be clearly distinct
and easy to follow. They are:

  1. Introduction
  2. Materials/Methods
  3. Results
  4. Discussion
  5. Conclusions
  6. Future directions/next steps

In the below sub-headings, you will find cues to help you start writing your
report within each section.

## Introduction

  * What was the experiment trying to address?
  * An important metric here is the why. Why was this experiment commissioned in the first place, and what value did we expect to get out of it? How does it feed into the larger mission/direction at Vow?
  * Re-state the aims and whether they were successfully addressed (with success or not).
  * Make sure you cite any information you've gathered from external sources if applicable. Generate citation list at end of report if there are any.

## Materials/Methods

  * What was the overall design of the experiment?
    * How long was it expected to take? How long did it actually take?
  * Lay out the step-by-step process (overview) of the experiment, feel free to use graphs/flow charts to explain this.
  * Add links to SOPs used within this experiment.
  * Mention any deviations from SOPs and why they were made.

## Results

In this section, state results without your interpretations behind it. For
example: Here, aim for 'molecule x increased glucose uptake of myoblasts.',
rather than 'molecule x increased glucose uptake of myoblasts indicating that
glucose uptake is controlled by pathway y.' Leave your intrepretations for the
Discussion section.

  * Describe the results of the experiment in general terms.
  * Add in any summary tables/images/figures of the results to back up your statements.
  * Caption each table/image/figure with relevant details (microscope magnifications, n values, p values [if applicable])
  * Results should be directly relevant to the aims of the experiment.

## Discussion

Time to expand on your results. Use this section as an opportunity to explain
your interpretation of the above results (don't leave any table/image/figure
un-mentioned, if it's part of the results it should be mentioned in your
discussion.

  * Discuss the implications for these findings or the reason that things might have worked out this way. Move on to the next set of results and repeat the process.
  * Be critical, are there any competing factors that may have interfered with the experiment and influenced the results? If so, state them and explain their potential impact on the perceived results. This may tie into next steps (ways to improve the experimental design to mitigate those risks).
  * Imagine you are reading this report for the first time with no knowledge of the experiment but want to know the key results and what they mean.

## Conclusions

  * Sum up the results of the experiment as succinctly as possible, this can be a short paragraph or a single line.
  * If the experiment was unsuccessful, don't feel you need to over-complicate the results. Explain why it was not successful and any key learnings.

## Future Directions/Next Steps

  * Provide a short paragraph or some dot points on the work that is to follow on from this experiment, e.g. repeats, new conditions, troubleshooting etc.




Introduction

Cells in culture secrete extracellular matrix proteins such as collagen, which
have value for Vow and, if possible, should be recovered from the waste media.
Our in-house data also supports the view that additional components of the
secretome, lipids, mitotic debris, and even the components of dead cells
present an opportunity to harvest additional products from the waste media
stream that can be incorporated into the final product, or recycled into
future cultures, e.g. as biological matrices (scaffolds) for next generation
products.

The objective of this research theme is to identify a suitable method for
separating proteins, lipids, and other high-value biomolecules from the waste
media. Considerations for viable approaches are:

  * Non-toxic. The method must not result in toxic reagents in the end product or waste
  * Food safe. The method should ideally use food safe reagents
  * Non-denaturing. The biomolecular structure of the product should be unaltered
  * Flavour. The processing/reagents should not impart a strong flavour
  * Scalable. Very high centrifugation speeds, expensive/scarce reagents should be avoided



Materials/Methods

  1. Add Ammonium sulfate powder to media: 227g / litre media (density is ~ 1g/ml so for larger volumes measuring the AmS as a volume, e.g. 227ml is often easier)
  2. Place in fridge for >4 hours to precipitate proteins. Overnight (or longer) is fine.
  3. Add media to 50ml tubes and centrifuge for 10m at 4,000G at 8C
  4. Observe the tube - check for either floating layer (lipids) and/or pellet (proteins)
  5. Decant lipid layer into a fresh tube. Continue to re-spin to collect a thicker consolidated supernatant and reserve pellet
  6. Add more media to the same tube to continue adding to the pellet
  7. Repeat steps 3-5 until media is used up
  8. Final ECM pellet can be resuspended in water to re-solubilise and quantify proteins (A) or kept as a precipitate for further processing

Experimental: Media conditioned during suspension culture of Nuvonis (quail
embryonic fibroblast) cells was used for these experiments. A variety of
formulations of culture media were being trialled by the process development
team, plus bioreactor optimisation was being performed. The experimental
conditions used to condition the waste media were therefore highly variable. A
negative control comprising fresh media (no contact/incubation with cells) was
also run.

Analysis: Proteomics was performed on Hycell- and Freestyle-based media.
Lipidomics was performed on RPMI/Hycell-based media.

  

Results

The quantity and composition of the precipitated solids varied markedly
between experiments due to the varying media formulations being trialled by
the process development team. Early experiments using Nuvonis Freestyle-based
media resulted in solid pellets being formed, comprising ~5% of the overall
media volume (fig. 1). Later experiments in which RPMI-based media was used
seemed to result in larger quantities of lipids present in the media and
small/unstable pellets which were hard to recover. At this point, attention
shifted to the lipid fraction, which was shown to yield 8-10g per litre of
waste media (fig. 2.).

Proteomics revealed the presence of extracellular matrix proteins (Collagens,
fibronectin) and large quantities of intracellular proteins (RNA degradation
complex, etc.), with media-only controls containing negligible amounts (fig.
3. 'Spent Media Analysis 1', PDF attached). Lipidomics data will be added once
available (> 08.06.2022)

Fig. 1. Protein pellet precipitated from 50ml Freestyle-based media and
Nuvonis cells.



Fig. 2. Lipid layer formed by cells in RPMI/Hicell media, consolidated from
~500ml waste media into a single centrifuge tube.



Discussion

Ammonium sulfate (AmS) salt precipitation is one of the most widely used
methods for recovering dissolved proteins for analysis, and works by creating
a super-saturated solution into which proteins are no longer soluble, whilst
not denaturing proteins - a key difference to the TCA protocol. Ammonium
sulphate is a commonly used acidity regulator in food manufacturing, and as a
nitrogen source for agricultural fertiliser, therefore a bulk commodity
available in large quantities.  

Evaluation of protocol:

  * Non-toxic. PASS. The AmS is non-toxic and suitable for food in small residual quantities. The waste media is highly concentrated in nitrogenous compounds, and cannot be disposed of through conventional sewerage in large volumes. However, it may have utility for repourose in agriculture and could present a secondary value stream.
  * Food safe. PASS.  AmS is food safe (it is used as an acidity regulator in food).
  * Non-denaturing. PASS.  Proteins are not denatured and retain their conformation. This means that they are likely to resolubilise, which is an important consideration for post-processing applications.
  * Flavour. FAIL. A small, controlled sample tasting (James H & Adem) revealed that the method results in a product with a pronounced bitter/acidic taste. The texture was minimal, somewhat granular.
  * Scalable. UNCLEAR. AmS is available in large quantities at agricultural grade (may not meet food grade standards). The whole media sample should be pre-cooled to 4Â°C which may be challenging at scale. A large amount of centrifugation is required - 2L media takes ~3h to fully spin down. Concentrated waste is likely to be too toxic for easy disposal, but can be used in diluted form as agricultural fertiliser.



Conclusions and future directions / next steps

The AmS method was broadly successful in generating a reliable method for
recovering biological macromolecules from suspension cultured cell-conditioned
waste media. Depending on the media type and growth conditions, samples were
observed to be either high in pelletable proteins, or lipids which co-
precipitated with proteins forming a layer at the surface of the centrifuge
tube. The conditions which influence these observations are currently unclear.


