

Perform passage using below volumes:

  




## Performed by: EC  




Culture IDs:

Harvested plates  
Seeded plates  
  
12211  
12388  
  
  
  
  

  




Media/Reagents used:  

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
TrypleM12350  
  
dPBS (for washing & neutralising)M12364  
  
Growth MediaM12672  
  
  
  




### Process:

1\. Fillled one 96 well plate with dPBS and tryple. Filled another separate
plate with growth media (DMEM/F12+ 20% FBS + 1xP/S), 200uL per well.  

\- Wells in Rows 1, 3, 5 and 7 from columns 1-6 were filled with 300uL of dPBS

\- Wells in Rows 2, 4, 6 and 8 from colummns 7-12 were filled with 200uL of
Tryple  

  

2\. Generated a multiwell open protocol using the 'Dynamo' script using the
attached 1 well passaging protocol attached and the pick lists from yesterday
(4/5/22) inputed into the script as a CSV file. Asked Stan for help doing so.

  

\- A water run of the generated multi well protocol was performed to ensure
the protocol was working as expected, final time taken for the 23 well passage
was 45 minutes 20 seconds. Total tryple time for each well was 25 minutes at
room temperature.  
\- The protocol was tested on both Oprah and Fox opentron machines, only Fox
was able to run the protocol successfully, Oprah had difficulty picking up
pipette tips, It wasn't able to align itself to pipette tips beyond A1
successfully.  
\- Set up the opentron deck as per the layout at the top of the page using
cultures 11416 and 11417.

3\. Cultures 11416 and 11417 containing tryple were investigated under 4x
objective on the primovert microscope. Saw that cells had begun their process
of detachment, looking more rounded in their morphology but were still stuck
to the base of the plate, decided to move the plates into the incubator for
further trypalisation then add a further 10uL of trypalised cells to the
destination plate manually.

4\. Moved the trypalized plates into the incubator for a further 8 minutes at
30 degrees, 5% CO2.

5\. Added a further 10uL of tryplised cells from each well to the destination
plate

6\. placed the new plate in incubator 140. 30 degrees, 5C CO2.

7\. Discarded the remaining cells on plates 11416 and 11417.

  




Observations/Summary:

  




SOPs used:

### https://www.notion.so/vow/Automated-clone-picking-passaging-protocols-for-
adherent-cultures-7e56e02c557e4e09a6a2fd0c7e8132d7




Relevant attachments  

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15aGLczRyHHdY0Qkz2XUhHvc9o-tTdPYscBFiN73qq1Y/edit#gid=233614229


