Introduction


SFA safety dossier submission for the release of Morsel as a saleable product
in Singapore requires inclusion of data to (A) quantify the concentration of
growth factors in Morsel, and (B) to demonstrate that these are present at
levels safe for human consumption. The aim of this experiment was to quantify
the concentration of EGF and IGF-1 growth factors in a final Morsel product,
and compare these values concentrations of EGF and IGF-1 in conventional quail
meat, conventional chicken meat, and a representative cooked Morsel product.
IGF-1 and EGF were selected specifically as these growth factors are added to
the media formulation used in Morsel manufacturing. IGF-1 and EGF were
detected in total protein lysates, and quantified using absorbance-based
sandwich ELISA kits (Cloud Clone Corp). Overall, data show that:

  * EGF and IGF were present at a significantly higher concentration in Morsel samples when compared to conventional quail meat
  * EGF concentration was not significantly different between cooked Morsel sample and conventional quail meat
  * IGF-1 concentration was significantly different between cooked Morsel sample and conventional quail meat


Materials/Methods


Vow cultured cells were collected from bioreactors over a period of ~8 weeks
from separate batches (n=3). To recover cells, broth was added to a 50mL tube
and was centrifuged to pellet cells. Following this, the supernatant was
removed, pellets snap frozen on liquid nitrogen, and then stored at -80Â°C for
later processing. Conventional quail meet was obtained from Singapore (n=1),
and conventional chicken meat from Australia. Chicken was sourced from 2
commercial sources; Woolworths (WW) (n=1) and Freedom Farms (FF) (n=1). Morsel
samples (n=1) were processed by cooking. All samples were snap-frozen and then
later processed in a single batch for cell lysis and total protein extraction.
Total protein was quantified by bicinchoninic acid assay (BCA) (Thermo Fisher
Scientific), and all samples adjusted to 1mg/mL. Protein lysates were then
assayed using a sandwich ELISA kit (Cloud Clone Corp). Analyses were carried
out using GraphPad Prism (ver 8.2.1), and growth factor concentrations
quantified by interpolating absorbance values from a standard curve (non-
linear regression of a sigmoidal 4-parameter curve) to give concentrations of
experimental samples. Growth factor values reported have been calculated
relative to the total protein extracted from each sample, respectively.


Results


Figures 1-3 show data from samples collected and processed for regulatory
testing. Scatter graphs (Fig 1) show A450 for known concentrations of IGF-1
and EGF. Data are fitted with a sigmoidal 4-parameter curve enabling the
calculation of interpolated values for unknown 'test' samples. One-way ANOVA
analyses show that the concentration of growth factor is significantly
increased in Morsel compared to conventional quail for both EGF and IGF-1 (Fig
2A&B). The concentration of EGF in cooked Morsel, however, is not
significantly different to the concentration of the same in conventional quail
(Fig 2B).

  

Figure 4 shows the concentration of IGF-1 in a working cell bank (WCB) vial
compared to conventional quail meat. It is important to note a key difference
in sample preparation here compared to preparation of regulatory samples,
where the WCB cell pellet was rinsed with PBS before cell lysis and protein
extraction. For regulatory samples, cells were pelleted in the broth and were
not rinsed before snap freezing and storage. With rinsing, the concentration
of IGF-1 is significantly increased in the WCB compared to conventional quail.
However, the mean concentration of IGF-1 in WCB cell pellet (7.6ng/mg) is
comparable to the concentration of IGF-1 in the final Morsel product which was
processed without rinsing after harvest (7.8ng/mg) (Fig 4).  

'Spiked' control conditions were prepared where Morsel 1mg/mL lysates were
spiked with a working stock of EGF or IGF-1 LR3 variant. The purpose of
including a spiked control condition was to determine the ability of sandwich
ELISA kits to detect specifically the growth factor variants used during cell
culture and manufacturing. In particular, the ELISA kit is specific for IGF-1
rather than the IGF-1 LR3 variant. Thus, growth factor working stocks for
spiked controls were prepared from growth factor stocks which are routinely
used to prepare growth medium for Morsel manufacturing, and lysates prepared
to include a final concentration of 10ng/mL of 'spiked' growth factor in
addition to any 'endogenous' growth factor already present in the sample. Data
show the detection of increased IGF-1 and EGF in spiked conditions compared to
untreated Morsel conditions (Fig 5). However, values do not reflect expected
absolute values for this condition. Mean growth factor concentrations of IGF-1
and EGF in non-processed Morsel samples were measured at 7.8 ng/mL and 102
pg/mL, respectively. Following the addition of growth factor working stocks to
spike samples to a final concentration of 10 ng/mL, spiked conditions for
IGF-1 and EGF were 39 ng/mL and 277 pg/mL, respectively. Given the
concentration of growth factors in 'untreated' Morsel samples, it would be
expected that the final concentration of spiked samples following growth
factor working stock addition would be approximately 20 ng/mL and 10ng/mL for
IGF-1 and EGF, respectively.

  


Discussion


IGF-1 and EGF were detected in all samples assayed, and commercial ELISA kits
(Cloud Clone Corp) detected growth factor variants used in the Morsel
manufacturing process, specifically. IGF-1 and EGF concentrations were
significantly higher in Morsel samples compared to conventional quail and
chicken conditions. This significant increase is not likely the result of
residual growth medium in sample lysates, as data show that the concentration
of growth factors in samples where cells were rinsed with PBS prior to protein
extraction were comparable to growth factor concentrations in conditions where
Morsel samples were not rinsed following harvesting and storage (Fig 4).

The selected ELISA kits (Cloud Clone Corp) have been designed and validated to
detect a growth factors of a particular species. It is unclear if the kits are
able to accurately detect and quantify growth factors from a different
species. ELISA kits were selected to match the species of the growth factors
used in manufacturing. However, conventional meat samples were of different
species to the growth factors used in manufacturing. Table 2 shows a
comparison of growth factor species between samples. Protein homology was
measured by automated amino acid sequence alignment (Uniprot Align) and shows
% alignment between amino acid sequences of proteins from different species
(Fig 5).

Kits used to assay concentrations of IGF-1 and EGF were specific to human and
bovine protein variants, respectively. Given the homology of protein sequences
between species, it is expected that human IGF-1 and bovine EGF were detected
at some level in avian tissues (quail and chicken samples).

Table 1.

SampleSpeciesUniprot ID  
IGF1  
Manufacturing growth factor (Vow cultured cells)Bos taurus

P07455  
  
Conventional chicken meatGallus gallus

P18254  
  
Conventional quail meatCoturnix japonica

P51462, A0A8C2UAQ3, A0A8C2UDA5  
  
EGF  
Manufacturing growth factor (Vow cultured cells)  
Homo sapien

P01133  
  
Conventional chicken meat  
Gallus gallus  

A0A1D5NX79  
  
Conventional quail meat  
Coturnix japonica  

A0A8C2T4N2 A0A8C2T5W6  
  
  

  

Conditions where Morsel lysates were spiked with additional growth factor do
not demonstrate expected growth factor concentrations. i.e. 10ng/mL spiked
condition already containing ~8ng/mL measures at ~40ng/mL, and therefore
values reported here may be overestimates of growth factor concentrations in
all samples assayed. Though absolute values may be an overestimate of true
growth factor concentrations, relative values between conditions are a valid
means of comparison where the concentration of IGF-1 and EGF are ~3-4 times
greater in Morsel, relative to conventional quail meat.


Conclusions


  * concentrations of IGF-1 and EGF were assayed by ELISA in Morsel samples, cooked Morsel, and conventional chicken and quail meats
  * ELISA kit detected 3-4x greater concentration of growth factors in Morsel compared to conventional quail meat, where
    * [IGF1] Morsel = 7.8ng/mg
    * [IGF1] Conventional quail = 2.5ng/mg
    * [EGF] Morsel = 101.9pg/mg
    * [EGF] Conventional quail = 14.4pg/mg
    * above values are amount of growth factor per milligram of extracted total protein
  * it is currently an open question whether the specific values measured are truely reflective of absolute concentrations
  * culture media used in Morsel manufacturing contains IGF-1 and EGF. Data show that centrifugation of cells and removal of supernatant is sufficient to remove growth-factor-containing residual media, and that rinsing with PBS is not necessary. PBS-rinsed and non-rinsed samples demonstrated comparable levels of IGF-1.  


