

## Completed by: VP


Aim/Purpose


To determine a value for pH and air-flow rate around which optimisation will
be carried out for Nuvonis suspension cells cultured in a stir-tank setting in
a RPMI:High-density media formulation. Two pH values and two air-flow rates
will be selected and tested as 'high' and 'low' values. These values will
serve as a starting point for further optimisation


Hypothesis


Cells will demonstrate a preference for a culture pH and air-flow rate,
demonstrated by a faster doubling time and or higher cell viability


Technical Gap


Vow has successfully completed tech transfer of quail suspension cells
purchased from Nuvonis for culturing and expanding cells in shake flasks.
Minimal optimisation has been carried out for culture of quail suspension
cells in bioreactor conditions including dissolved oxygen, pH, and agitation.

pH or potential hydrogen describes the acidity or alkalinity of a reagent and
is measured by the negative decimal logarithm of the concentration of hydrogen
ions. Cellular processes operate optimally at certain pH values. Deviation
from these values can lead to conformational enzyme changes, alter metabolism
and ultimately alter cell proliferation dynamics. Previously published data
are varied, with evidence to suggest fibroblast cells favour slightly alkaline
conditions (Kruse et al, 2017), while other evidence demonstrates that avian
and CHO cells proliferate optimally at a neutral pH (Jordan et al 2016,

  

THIS NEEDS FINISHING

  


Method/Procedure


See below for culture parameters and conditions. Workflow for bioreactor set
up, monitoring and packdown is set out in AMBR250 template




Culture parameters & calculations:

See bioprocess calculator for sums and formulae.

pH

Vow have previously have cultured Nuvonis cells at a pH of 7.5 in 2/200/2000L
bioreactor. Previously published data have indicated that for mammalian cells
and CHO cells in particular, pH is typically maintained at 7.0± 1.0 (Pauline,
2013).

Antifoam

Previously used in 2, 200 and 2000L bioreactors at 1:10 000. Equates to 20uL
in 200mL of media in each reactor. Feed schedule to offset x2 1mL draw every
day will contain antifoam at a volume to dose the entire 200mL reactor volume
(i.e. 20uL in every 2mL delivered, equates to 200uL antifoam in 20mL total
feed/antifoam reservoir.

For the current experiment, a dose of 1:10 000 will be used.

Air sparging

Have previously used 5L/min in 50L in 200L STR reactor. This equates to 0.1
vvm (vvm = volume of air sparged per unit volume of growth media per minute,
is calculated by dividing airlfow rate (L/min) by total media volume (L)).
e.g. 5 L/min ÷ 50 L = 0.1 vvm. When media is added to the reactor to bring the
total volume to 200L (with sparging at the same rate), this is reduced to a
0.025 vvm

For mammalian culture, previously published data indicate that sparged air
should be between 0.03 - 0.1 vvm (Pauline, 2013).

For the current experiment, the following vvms will be selected and tested:

0.03 vvm in 200mL scale is equal to 6mL/min flow rate

0.1 vvm in 200mL scale is equal to 20mL/min flow rate

Agitation

RPMs to be tested: 150, 250, 350, 450 RPM. Previously used tip speeds used in
2-2000L bioreactors include 0.2 - 0.7 m/s. AMBR250 manual recommends speeds
between 150-500 RPM for mammalian cell culture.

Selected RPM for the current experiment is 200 RPM with an equivalent tip
speed of 0.2722 m/s. This exceeds the critical mixing speed required to
maintain cells in suspension.

Above: from AMBR250 operation manual

  

  


