

## Completed by: Shaleen Sharma


Aim/Purpose


To develop a serum free media formulation that allows suspension derived
fibroblasts (e.g. Nuvonis quail fibroblasts) to adhere and ideally proliferate
in tissue culture treated flasks.


Hypothesis


A serum free basal medium supplemented with adherent facilitating factors will
increase the adherence and growth of Nuvonis fibroblasts.


Technical Gap


Currently, the Freestyle-based ACF adherent medium for Nuvonis fibroblasts is
not suitable for our experiments due to poor adherence and growth of Nuvonis
cells. In contrast, serum containing media provides healthy adherence and
growth of Nuvonis fibroblasts. In accordance with the overarching goal of the
second product team, an ACF adherent media formulation will need to be
developed for various tissue engineering strategies.  
  
Hence, this experiment aims to investigate the efficacy of various media
additives and coatings to facilitate the adherence and growth of suspension
derived Nuvonis fibroblasts.


Method/Procedure


Measurables:  
Cell number. Cells will be fixed and DAPI + Phalloidin (actin) stained. We can
measure DAPI with a FIJI macro we have however we dont have a Phalloidin stain
macro to get quantitative data - so data will be qualitative.  
  
This experimental design aims to answer the following:

  * Which media additives mimic the capability of serum media to allow adherence and growth of Nuvonis cells?
  * What rough concentrations of these media additives mimic the capability of serum media to allow adherence and growth of Nuvonis cells?
  * What plate coatings facilitate adherent (and consequential growth) of Nuvonis cells?
  * Do our cells in fact adhere in the suspension media they are accustomed to? (see: Column 7 in "Controls" section).
  * What is the effect of combining media additives with coatings on adherence and proliferation?

And de-risk the following scenarios:

  * Seeing no effect due to the literature derived concentrations being too high/too low concentrations. (De-risked by "+" and "-"  in each condition below).
  * Having Albumin, ITS and FGF-2 produce no effect individually - however might when all are combined together effectively acting as a serum replacement formulation (see Column 2 of "Controls" plate).
  * Selected media additives having no effect alone and adherence and growth is only seen in conjunction with a coating (arguably unlikely, however it is possible)
  * The ACF formulation found here will not be transferrable to other cell lines. The additives included in this study are components of serum and the components (e.g. KSR) parallel with the ACF media Bonnie has been using to develop embryonic suspension/adherent cell lines (e.g. DMEM/F12 + 20% KSR)

Controls:

  * Positive control - DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1X P/S
  * Negative control \- ACF Nuvonis Freestyle media
  * Basal media control (non-treated) - DMEM/F12


  
  
Figure 1: Visual representation of conditions and scope of experiment. Note:
"+" and "-" refer to a 25% increase and decrease respectively in literature
derived concentrations. ITS is an abbreviation of an Insulin-Transferrin-
Selenium mixture. Suspension media condition in "Controls" plate is the
suspension media that the Nuvonis cells were cultured in prior to seeding in
adherent well plates.  
  
  




Note - Collagen, Gellagen, Fibronectin are being assessed as coatings, the
rest as media additives. Only the media components are being tested at + and
-.

  

Additive/coating

Concentration in serum

Concentration in media (mimicking 20% serum)

Reference  
  
KSR

  

20% (v/v)

N/A  
  
Albumin

23 mg/ml

  

Gstraunthaler, G., 2003. Alternatives to the use of fetal bovine serum: Serum-
free cell culture. ALTEX, pp.257-281.  
  
ITS

  

1X (comes in a 100X stock)

N/A  
  
FGF-2

  

10 ng/ml

https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/deepweb/assets/sigmaaldrich/product/documents/133/584/hbfgfrobul.pdf  
  
Collagen I

  

5 ug/cm2 (coating)

James H protocol  
  
Fibronectin

  

5 ug/cm2 (coating)

James H protocol  
  
Gellagen

  
5ug/cm2James H protocol


Timeline:
  
  
Task

Day  
  
  * Coat plates with Collagen I, Fibronectin, Gellagen
  * Prepare 12 media conditions in 15mL falcon tubes (8mL ea)
  * Prepare control plate media

Wednesday (morning)  
  
  * Count suspension culture and obtain 3.2 million cells
  * Aliquot 60,000 cells into each media condition tube
  * Seed plates as per Figure 1 and incubate for 48-72 hours

Wednesday (afternoon)  
  
  * Remove supernatant, fix and DAPI
  * Image plates using Zaber 

Friday


Next steps:
  
  
In the scenario that any individual conditions perform significantly well -
these can be taken forward to a combinatorial DSD where they can be optimised
toward a serum free formulation. Alternatively a concentration study can be
performed to optimise the concentration of the ingredient for Nuvonis -
however this concentration may not translate to other cell types we use in the
future and hence may not be worth doing.

Once a rough ACF formulation is found for Nuvonis, all tissue engineering
strategies in second product can move away from serum containing media.

  


