Aim/Purpose


Background

Using the foundations built up during the "Buffalo Wings" prototype work, we
will trial tissue engineering at larger scales and using suspension adapted
cells (Nuvonis fibroblasts predominantly). This work is part of the Mini-
Tissues workstream for the Second Product, more can be read about this here.
Initial Buffalo Wings experimental plans and lab books can be found here.

Aim

To understand the optimal cell density for tissue engineering in moulds using
suspension Nuvonis cells.

Hypothesis

Tissue-engineered tissues have a critical, optimum cell density (at the time
of seeding), above this critical cell density, tissue formation is inhibited.  
  
Note -  this hypothesis is based on the finding that adherent cells did not
form tissues over 10M/ml


Methods and Experiment Layout


Brief Method

The method followed here will be very similar to the one used for the Buffalo
Wings prototype large scale harvest. Briefly, this method will use Nuvonis
cells, embedded in a tissue gel matrix consisting of defined ratios of:
Collagen I, 10x DMEM/F12, 0.1M Sodium Hydroxide and Matrigel. This allows the
formation of tissues via the process of tissue gelation, condensation and
self-assembly around 2 attachment points (Figure 1) - See Notion page for
summary of approach.

  

Figure 1. Myoblast tissues self assembled around 2 attachment points of a 3D
printed solid mould (white)

  

Experiment Layout

We will seed 2 plates containing tissue engineering moulds with 12 tissues
each, at a number of different cell densities, ranging from 2 million to 15
million cells per mL (2M, 5M, 7.5M, 10M and 15M). One plate will be with the
above gel matrix components, untreated, and we will add TGF-beta to the other.
TGF-beta will be added to both the gel matrix during tissue formation and to
the media at 5ng/ml.

Figure 2. Tissue eng mould plate layout for experiment 1 - this will be
replicated with and without TGF-beta, total volume of 4mls per well

  




Before Starting

  * Calculate approximate cell requirements for experiment 1
    * = Approx 360 million cells for 2 plates at the above densities
  * Calculate required cell densities and volumes of matrix ingredients for large can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nAKlh6US6Xud95YGlDTkI4LHBWjzlAxnhmTym1P2bUw/edit#gid=1981262089
    * Total volumes for experiment:
      * Collagen I = 40.6ml
      * 10x DMEM/F12 = 5ml
      * 0.1M NaOH = 6.1ml
      * Matrigel = 9ml
  * Autoclave 2x large Nylon scaffolds, 2% agar (for embedding moulds), forceps and mould weights (Jesi - Aluminium rods in PDMS)
  * Ensure matrix reagents are made up fresh at required concentrations

Matrix reagents details for this experiment:

  * Make up matrix reagents:
    * Collagen I to 2.6mg/mL - stock is at 6.17mg/mL - dilution factor 1:2.4
      * need ~ 2 mL total (make 2.5 mL)

Timeline:

Typically harvesting at 7 days for small tissues and 10 days for larger ones.
But this is still in optimisation. A visual assessment of the tissues will be
performed every other day with media changes.


