  
  
Performed by: Bonnie Tangey




Eggs used

2x Khaki Campbell Duck eggs, after 12 days of incubation (approx 43% of
natural incubation period). Livers from both animals were combined for the
liver isolations, and 1 eye from each animal was used for the eye isolations.




Notes/Summary:

James Henstock requested that I collect duck liver isolate to be used by the
future product team. As I do not have a cell culture media appropriate for the
growth of hepatocytes, I will not be expanding them in immediate culture, and
will freeze the entire homogenate. I chose Day 12 duck embryos as by this
stage of development, livers should be clearly formed. The livers were indeed
clearly visible in these embryos however they still had a pale pink color,
rather than the dark red typical of livers in later development.

Eye balls were also collected during this dissection and were placed into
immediate culture (3/4 of total isolate) and the remaining 1/4 of the isolate
was frozen as homogenate. Eye cells were collected due to promising data in
the literature indicating their amenability to suspension adaption. The
researchers who developed AGE.1.CR, an immortalized embryonic duck retina cell
line, for example, reported that retina cells were more readily adapted to
suspension culture than somite's (for details, see review in the previous
experiments background section here https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520R&D/ODEzOS4zfDEwNjMxNy82MjYxLTUxODIxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzIzMjM5OTQwNDV8MjA2NjEuMw==).
This suggests that embryonic retinal cells may have some advantage over
embryonic fibroblasts in suspension culture. Providing further support to this
theory is the fact that embryonic retinal cells are able to grow at very high
density in suspension. The AGE.1.CR cell line can reach cell densities of up
to 50 million cells/ mL in suspension culture. The human embryonic retina cell
line, PER.C6, is even more impressive and can grow at densities of 10 million
cells/mL in batch fed systems, and 100 million cells/mL with continuous
perfusion (see background section of this experiment for references
https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520R&D/MTAzMzYuMzAwMDAwMDAwMDAxfDEwNjMxNy83OTUxLTY1NDg2L1RyZWVOb2RlLzMxNjE4NjAyNzB8MjYyMzguMw==
).




Cultures IDs

 Cell line

Vessel

Species

Frozen Isolate ID

Culture ID

Media  
  
DUCKEYE

T25

Khaki Campbell Duck

  
  
  


  
  
Process- Isolation of day 12 KHAKI liver and eye cells.

Performed at our Melbourne lab space, Co-Labs, U/17 306 Albert St Brunswick
3056.

Note:  Eggs were processed one at a time, so that there was no delay between
cracking open the eggs, and euthanising the embryos.

  1. T75 flasks were pre-filled with 12mL of either DMEM/F12 + 10% KSR, DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS or OptiPRO+ 4mM Glutamax, and placed into the incubator prior to commencing the isolations. This was to warm and equilibrate the media in the CO2 environment. 1 flask was filled with each media, for each species.
  2. Mr Frosty placed in the fridge to cool. 
  3. Eggs removed from the egg incubator
  4. Eggs cleaned 2x with a Kim wipe soaked in F10, and then once more with 70% ethanol.
  5. Eggs transferred into the BSC
  6. Once air dried, each egg was cracked open, into a petri dish.
  7. Using sterile forceps, entire embryos were immediately removed from the rest of the egg, and transferred to fresh petri dishes.
  8. Embryos were quickly euthanised by removing their heads with sterile forceps    
  9. After all embryos had been collected, the bodies were transferred to collection jars containing 20mL of PBS + 2% pen/strep to rinse. All embryos from the same breed were combined into a single collection jar.
  10. Bodies transferred to a 2nd urine jar containing 20mL of PBS + 2% pen/strep for a 2nd wash. 
  11. Bodies were then pooled into a 50mL tubes (1 tube per species/breed) containing 20mL of PBS without antibiotics. 
  12. Each tube was mixed but pipetting with a 10mL or 25mL serological for 2-5 minutes, causing the embryos to fall apart into a semi-homogenous cell suspension.
  13. Cell suspension was then passed through a 70um cell filter and into a fresh 50mL tube. 
  14. Tubes were centrifuged for 5min at approximately 500xg.
  15. After centrifugation, supernatant was removed from each 50mL tube, and cell pellets were resuspended in 4mL of PBS without antibiotic-antimycotic. 
  16. For each cell line, 1mL of cell/PBS mix was seeded into 3 xT75 flasks, containing the media from step 1.
  17. All vessels were then transferred to the cell culture incubator, set to 37C and 5% CO2.
  18. The remaining 1mL of cell suspension for each species/breed was centrifuged for 5min at approximately 500xg. 
  19. Supernatant removed, and cell pellet resuspended in 1mL of Cryostor CS10 cryopreservation media, then transferred to a cryovial.
  20. Vial placed into the pre- cooled Mr. Frosty, and then into the -80C freezer (to be moved to N2 storage after 1-2 days). 




Media and Reagents

Reagent

ID  
  
PBS M 12646  
Penicillin/streptomycin UNKNOWN, was already aliquoted at Melb lab (stored at
-20)  
OptiPRO + 4mM Glutamax M 12639  
DMEM/F12 + 10% KSR M 12675  
DMEM/ F12 + 10% FBS  
 M 12677  
Cryostor CS10 S  6484


