

## Performed by: Alex  




Note- LIBRARY LAB  
  
There should be Nuvonis base media (freestyle with all the additives except
growth factors in library lab fridge 126. I have not made an aliquot because I
was not expecting them to need to be passaged sorry!

Growth factors are all in the -20 freezer in library lab, except for the FGF2
(FBF basic) which you will need to steal from main lab.




Cultures

Flasks IDVessel typeMedia

Cell count  
  
11477

 50mL shakers

Nuvonis base (inc 50ng/mL IGF1 and 10ng/mL EGF) + 100ng/mL FGF2.

Live:16,120,000  
Dead: 720,000  
  
11478Nuvonis base (inc 50ng/mL IGF1 and 10ng/mL EGF) + 100ng/mL FGF2 +
100ng/mL YIGSR

Live:  4,360,000  
Dead: 320,000  
  
11479Nuvonis base (inc 50ng/mL IGF1 and 10ng/mL EGF) + 100ng/mL FGF2 +
100ng/mL RDG

Live: 5,640,000  
Dead: 960,000  
  
11480Nuvonis base (inc 50ng/mL IGF1 and 10ng/mL EGF) + 100ng/mL FGF2 \+
100ng/mL RDG \+ 100ng/mL YIGSR

Live: 11,960,000  
Dead: 2,760,000  
  
11481Nuvonis base (inc 50ng/mL IGF1 and 10ng/mL EGF) + 100ng/mL FGF2 \+
100ng/mL RDG \+ 100ng/mL YIGSR \+ 1:100 Revitacell supplement

Live:920,000  
Dead: 280,000  
  
  

In Cell Count spreadsheet, single value taken, not averaged




Process:  

  1. Take urine jar of Nuvonis media labelled, "18/04/22 Quail suspension feed" from the top shelf of fridge 126 in library lab. Take growth factors labelled "18/04/22 Quail suspension feed" from the -20C freezer in library lab. 
  2. In the BSC, add EGF, FGF2 and IGF1-LR3 to the urine jar following the instructions in the table below (no need to filter as the growth factors are sterile). Put the remaining growth factors aside for after the cell count. 
  3. Place urine jar containing media in the 37C water bath. 
  4. Collect vessels from shaker, wipe with ethanol-sprayed Rediwipe, and brought into BSC 
  5. Centrifuged 50 mL tubes at 400 x g for 5 mins 
  6. Aspirated  80% (8mL) of supernatant, taking extra care to not disrupt or aspirate pellet.
  7. Resuspended each pellet in the remaining 2mL of media using a 5mL serological. Check the exact volume and record for the cell count. Take 1x 10ul samples from each culture for haemocytometer counts. 
  8. Perform haemocytometer counts, and record in the table above.
  9. Top up each 50 mL centrifuge tube with 8 mL of fresh pre-warmed media and mix PLEASE SEE TABLE BELOW FOR FEEDING ISTRUCTIONS AS EACH CULTURE IS SLIGHTLY DIFFERNT
  10. Return to incubator on shaking platform, which should be pre-set to 200RPM 

incubator 160 Library Lab, 37C, 5% CO2




  

  

Media prep workflow  
StepsReagentVol to add  
  
1\. Take urine Jar containing 40mL Nuvonis base in library lab fridge, 126,
and add the reagents listed to the right. Warm in the 37C water bath for
15+minutes. Note that you can start spinning the cultures, removing media and
counting cells as soon as the urine jar is in the bath, as it takes ages.
After performing counts, proceed to the next steps listed below.

FGF2

80ul  
  
IGF1 LR340ul  
EGF4ul  
2\. Remove 8ml fromt the urine jar and transfer to culture 11477. This culture
can then be returned to the incubatorNothing more to add to this culture  
3\. Remove another 8ml from the urine jar and transfer to culture 11478. Add
0.8uL YIGSR then return to the incubatorYIGSR0.8uL  
  
4\. Add 1.2uL RDG to the urine jar (now with 24mL remaining media)

RGD

1.2ul  
  
5\. Remove 8ml fromt the urine jar and transfer to culture 11479. This cultre
can then be returned to the incubatorNothing more to add to this culture  
  
6\. Add 1.6uL YIGSR to the Urine jar, (now with 16mL remaining media)

YIGSR

1.6ul  
  
7\. Remove 8ml from the urine jar and transfer to culture 11480. This can now
be returned to the incubatorNothing more to add to this culture  
  
8\. Add 80ul Revitacell to the remaining 8mL media in the urine jar. Then
transfer to culture 11481. This culture can then be returned to the incubator.

Revita cell

80uL


  
  
Observations

2mL cells in tubes were sitting in BSC at RT for ~1-1.5hrs total. Observed
increasing numbers of dead cells from 11477 (counted first) to 11481, not sure
if this is condition specific or because of time out of incubator.






Media/Reagents used:

  

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
Nuvonis base media M11416  
  
FGF2 M9371  
IGFLR1 M12074  
RGD M11644  
YIGSR M11643  
EGF  
 M12011  
  
  
  

  


