

## Completed by: Bonnie Tangey


Aim/Purpose


1\. To adapt avian embryo derived cells to growth in serum free media in
planar culture

2\. To adapt avian embryo derived cells to growth in suspension culture.


Hypothesis


1\. Cells which have been derived from 11 day mongrel chicken and Cayuga duck
embryos and placed immediately into suspension culture will begin to
proliferate within 21 days, in 1 or more of the following medias

  1. Freestyle 293 medium supplemented with Yeast Extract, L-Ornithine monohydrochloride, Putrescine, IGF-1, EGF and ACA.
  2. CDM4Avian medium supplemented with 2.5 mM GlutaMAX 
  3. OptiPRO SFM + 0.2% Pluronic F-68 + \+ 2mM GlutaMAX 

2\. Following a gradual adaption process, cells derived from 11 day mongrel
chicken and Cayuga duck embryos will be adapted to growth in one or more of
the following medias, within 7 passages.

  1. DMEM/ f12 + 5% FBS
  2. OpiPRO SFM + 4mM GlutaMAX 
  3. DMEM + 10% KSR


Technical Gap


As mentioned in the background section here, https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/ODEzOS4zfDEwNjMxNy82MjYxLTUxODIxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzIzMjM5OTQwNDV8MjA2NjEuMw==,
all existing avian suspension cell lines were adapted to low or serum free
medium in planar culture prior to being suspension adapted. We do not yet know
if it is possible to achieve suspension adaption while bypassing this step.


Method/Procedure


EXPERIMENTAL PLAN

Note: None of our pigeon eggs remained viable throughout incubations, so we
are left with just the Cayuga duck and mongrel chicken for our initial
experiments.  

Day 0 (31/01/2022)  
Single cell homogenate prepared from D10-11 embryos following the protocol
outlined by James Henstock and cells seeded into either planar or suspension
culture as follows.  
  
SUSPENSION  
D0: For each species (Duck and chicken), E-125 flasks will be seeded in
triplicate in 1 of 3 medias. Cells will be seeded at a density of at least 1M
cells/ml (dependant on availability). Total cells needed for suspension at
1M/mL = 225M cell per species

  1. Freestyle 293 medium supplemented with:  
 Yeast Extract: 10ml YE stock (100g/ml) per litre of medium  
 L-Ornithine monohydrochloride: 20mg/l; add 1ml stock (20mg/ml) per litre of
medium  
 Putrescine dihydrochloride: 20mg/ml; add 1ml stock (20mg/mg) per litre of
medium  
 IGF-1 LONG R3; 50ug/l; add 50ul stock (1mg/ml) per litre of medium  
 EGF; 10ug/l; add 10ul stock (1mg/ml) per litre of medium  
 Anti-Clumping agent (ACA) 1:100; add 10ml stock per litre of medium

  2. CDM4Avian medium supplemented with 2.5 mM GlutaMAX 
  3. OptiPRO SFM + 0.2% Pluronic F-68 + 2mM GlutaMAX 

Ongoing: Suspension cultures will have a 75% media change and cell count every
4 days following Vows establish protocols for suspension culture monitoring.

ADHERENT  
D0: For each species (Duck and chicken). Initially, all cells for adherent
culture will be seeded into the same media, DMEM+10% FBS + 1x pen/strep. Seed
T25 flasks at 20,000 cells/ml. Total cells required = 1.5M cells per species.
Perform 1st feed when adherent cell cultures are established (may take up to a
week).  
  
Once flasks reach 80% confluence: Cells will be pooled and counted. They will
be then split into 4 groups for serum free media adaption experiments, seeded
at 7500/cm. N=1 for each of these conditions as we will not have the hands to
conduct replicates.

Throughout the experiment, all cultures will have a 50% media change every
48-72hrs and be passaged when approx. 80% confluent and reseeded at 7500/cm.
Any successfully adapted cultures will be expanded and placed into suspension
adaption experiments. Note that homogenate will also be plated directly into
each of the medias listed below, to see if cells can quickly adapt cells to
ACF media, without the need for slow reduction of serum.

  1. Control: Maintained in DMEM + 10% FBS + 1 x P/S.  
  

  2. Low serum  
Seeded in DMEM + 8% FBS (no P/S after this point)  
P2, seeded in 6% FBS  
P3, seeded in 5% FBS  
  
Cells to be maintained in 5% serum until being placed in the suspension
adaption pipeline.  


  3. OptiPRO SFM adaption  
 Seeded in 20% OptiPRO SFM + (DMEM + 10% FBS).  
 P2. 40% OptiPRO SFM + (DMEM + 10% FBS).  
 P3. 60% OptiPRO SFM + (DMEM + 10% FBS).  
 P4.80% OptiPRO SFM + (DMEM + 10% FBS).  
 P5. 90% OptiPRO SFM + (DMEM + 10% FBS).  
 P6. 95% OptiPRO SFM + (DMEM + 10% FBS).  
 P7. 100% OptiPRO  
  

  4. KSR adaption  
 Seeded in DMEM + 8% FBS + 2% KSR  
 P2, seeded in DMEM + 6% FBS + 4% KSR  
 P3, seeded in DMEM + 4% FBS + 6% KSR  
 P4, seeded in DMEM + 2% FBS + 8% KSR  
 P4, seeded in DMEM 10% KSR


