Aim:


To assess the effect of various macro-molecular crowders on the ECM production
and deposition of Nuvonis Quail fibroblasts.


Hypothesis:


The addition of various macromolecular crowders to growth media will stimulate
the production and deposition of ECM in Nuvonis Quail fibroblasts.


Technical Gap:


Currently at Vow, our first generation product consists of a single cell paste
derived from Nuvonis Quail fibroblasts grown up in suspension. For our second
product (and possibly for the launch of our first product), we will need to
achieve a unique and engaging texture with our cell mass. While post-culture
modifications may aid in developing interesting and engaging textures and
fibrosity, ultimately we may be able to achieve a better outcome by leveraging
biological processes during culture. For fibroblasts in particular, we may be
able to up regulate ECM production to achieve a tissue-like structure as has
been previously done at Vow and regularly in the field of tissue engineering.  
  
Macro molecular crowding (MMC) is one approach to achieve such structures. The
principle revolves around mimicking the endogenous macro-molecule environment
in-vivo that leads to tissue formation (e.g. wound healing, scar tissue
formation). In cell culture, macro-molecules are diluted heavily in solvent
(media) thus not replicating the concentrated environment seen in nature.
Hence, MMC replicates this environment to an extent, driving forward cellular
processes (such as fibre and tissue production) which we can exploit to create
irresistible food for the Singapore market.


  
  
Figure 1: A schematic depicting the phenomena of MMC in-vitro [1]  
  
  


Plan:
  
  
Figure 2: Visual representation depicting each MMC condition in roller bottles
(in triplicate) and a corresponding T-flask control.  
  
  




Conditions:

  * 15 x 850 cm2 Corning Roller Bottles (conditions + media control)
  * 5 x T75 flasks (T-flask controls for each media condition/controls)




Condition

Crowding agent

Concentration of crowder in media*

Amount needed to supplement media  
  
DMEM + 20% FBS + Vit C + Ficoll PM70

Ficoll PM70

37.5 mg/ml

26.25g  
  
DMEM + 20% FBS + Vit C + Ficoll PM400

FIcoll PM400

25 mg/ml

17.5g  
  
DMEM + 20% FBS + Vit C + DxS

DxS (Dextran)

100 ug/ml

70mg  
  
DMEM + 20% FBS + Vit C + CN

Carrageenan

75 ug/ml

52.5mg  
  
DMEM + 20% FBS + Vit C (control)

None

0 mg/ml

0 mg  
  
*Concentrations are derived from Raghunathan and co-workers [1]


Timeline:


Tasks

Day of experiment

Tentative date

Measures for success  
  
Obtain Nuvonis cells and seed all flasks in untreated media

0

03/06

Cell count prior to seeding  
  
Monitor all flasks for attachment and anchorage (24 hours)

0 - 1

04/06

Imaging and visual signs of anchorage and attachment  
  
Media change to conditioned media

1

04/06

N/A  
  
Monitor for ECM production and deposition

1 - 7

04/06 - 11/06

Cell sheet formation, phenol red colour change


References:
  
  
[1]: Satyam, A., Kumar, P., Fan, X., Gorelov, A., Rochev, Y., Joshi, L.,
Peinado, H., Lyden, D., Thomas, B., Rodriguez, B., Raghunath, M., Pandit, A.
and Zeugolis, D., 2014. Macromolecular Crowding Meets Tissue Engineering by
Self-Assembly: A Paradigm Shift in Regenerative Medicine. Advanced Materials,
26(19), pp.3024-3034.


