

## Completed by: Bonnie Tangey




Background

Cell isolations  
This project will leverage off the previous avian embryonic cell isolation and
suspension adaption experiments previously conducted in Sydney. See lab books
here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520R&D/ODEzOS4zfDEwNjMxNy82MjYxLTUxODIxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzIzMjM5OTQwNDV8MjA2NjEuMw==

Our initial aim will be purely to expand Vows cell library to include a range
of avain embryonic cell lines. Following this, we will expand to suspension
adaption and immortalization of these new cell lines. The overarching
objective being the establishment of a reproducible pipeline for generating
immortalized, suspension adapted cell lines at Vow.  
  
Embryonic cell lines are likely to be more amenable to suspension adaption
than their adult counterparts due to their immature extracellular matrix and
naive epigenetic modifications. Their high proliferative rate and willingness
to adapt to serum free growth conditions is advantageous to both planar and
suspension culture. This theory is supported by the fact that all the avian
suspension cell lines that have been developed in the word to date, are
derived from embryonic cells. In our preliminary suspension adaption
experiments using Vows own embryonic quail cell line, we saw excellent growth
rates in serum free media in planar culture as well as excellent growth in
suspension culture, the likes of which have never been seen at Vow previously.
These results provided further evidence for the utility of the embryonic cells
in suspension adaption. See lab books here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520R&D/ODEzOS4zfDEwNjMxNy82MjYxLTUxODIxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzIzMjM5OTQwNDV8MjA2NjEuMw==.

Retina cells  
For this project, in addition to collecting homogenous isolate derived from
the entire body of headless embryos, we will seek to obtain isolate from
embryonic eyes. The rationale behind this is there is evidence in the
literature to suggest that embryonic retina cells are especially amenable to
suspension adaption. The researchers who developed AGE.1.CR, an immortalized
embryonic duck retina cell line for example, reported that retina cells were
more readily adapted to suspension culture than somite's. This suggests that
embryonic retinal cells may have some advantage over embryonic fibroblasts in
suspension culture. Providing further support to this theory is the fact that
embryonic retinal cells are able to grow at very high density in suspension.
The AGE.1.CR cell line can reach cell densities of >50 million cells/ mL in
suspension culture {1}. The human embryonic retina cell line, PER.C6, is even
more impressive and can grow at densities of 10 million cells/mL in batch fed
systems, and 100 million cells/mL with continuous perfusion {2}. An argument
could be made for the role of lactate in the ability of retinal cells to grow
at high density, presumably unharmed by the high proportion of metabolic waste
produced.  Cells of the retina generally have a very high rate of glycolysis,
resulting in high levels of pyruvate and lactate within the sub retinal space
{3}. Not only are the cells of the retina able to tolerate high levels of
lactate, but some of these cells are also able to utilize it as a metabolic
substrate {3, 5}. In some instances, retinal pigment epithelial cells appear
to preferentially metabolize lactate, even in the presence of glucose or
glutamate, which they preserves for the more energy consumptive cells of the
retina {4, 6}.

Spontaneous immortalization of retina pigment epithelia (RPE) cells. Under
normal circumstances retina pigment epithelial (RPE) cells have limited
proliferative capacity in culture, senescing within 10 passages {7}. A
commonly observed phenomenon of these cells however, is their high propensity
towards spontaneous immortalization {8}. In a study which established 119 cell
lines from human donors, 7 lines (5.8%) were spontaneously immortalized by
serial passaging {9}. Once undergoing spontaneous transformation, RPE cells
transition away from a traditional cobblestone epithelial-like morphology, to
one more typical of mesenchymal/ fibroblast cells. Their rate of proliferation
increases after becoming immortalized, with doubling times of just 20 hours
reported {9}.

Adaption to serum free media in planar culture  
It has been well documented in literature that adaption to serum free media in
planar culture, prior to suspension, greatly improves the likelihood that
cells with successfully adapt to growth in suspension. In our initial avain
embryonic cell isolation experiment we found that slow adaptation to serum
free media in adherent culture was not required for our Bobwhite and Japanese
Quail cell lines, and that they grew well when plated, immediately post
isolation, into either DMEM/F12 + 10% KSR or OptiPRO + 4mM Glutamax. (see
here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520R&D/ODEzOC4wfDEwNjMxNy82MjYwLTUxNzczL1RyZWVOb2RlLzEwODQyMTcwMjV8MjA2NTguMA==
)   Given our previous success with this fast adaptation process, all isolated
collected in this project will be plated into DMEM/F12 + 10% KSR or OptiPRO +
4mM Glutamax as well as DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS. The FBS condition will serve as a
backup, in the instance that some species require a slower, rather than
immediate weening from FBS.

Suspension adaptation  
We have previously seen excellent, but transient, growth of our embryonic
quail cells in suspension culture. See results here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520R&D/OTk5OC4zMDAwMDAwMDAwMDF8MTA2MzE3Lzc2OTEtNjM2MzkvVHJlZU5vZGUvMzM2NTI5ODg5NHwyNTM4MC4z
and here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520R&D/ODE0My4yMDAwMDAwMDAwMDF8MTA2MzE3LzYyNjQtNTE3ODYvVHJlZU5vZGUvOTk2NTQ0MTE2fDIwNjcxLjE5OTk5OTk5OTk5Nw==.
Here we plan to leverage of the learnings from our past 2 embryonic suspension
adaption experiments in order to improve on these results, in terms of the
length of time the cells can be maintained in culture, and the number of
doublings they can undergo. The following parameters will influence our choice
of conditions to focus on for the upcoming suspension adaption trials.  

Vessel size  
50mL bioreactor tubes will be used for this experiment. The downside of these
is that they have a low culture volume in suspension (10mL) meaning that the
ViCell cannot be used to perform automated cell counts (due to the requirement
to sacrifice at least 500ul solution and 50k cells at each count). The benefit
however is the reduced labor at each feed and count because cells do not need
to be transferred to falcon tubes before centrifugation, and require fewer
cells to be seeded.  
  
Shaker speed  
Project Frankenstein at Vow (focusing on CRISPR mediated cell modifications to
improve CHOMP adaptation to suspension), have reported increased cell
viability in suspension with reduced shaking speeds. The shaking speeds used
by Vow during the majority of our suspension adaption experiments has been set
to 210 RPM for 50mL bioreactor tubes and 120 RPM for e-125 flasks. Team
Frankenstein saw improved survival at shaking speeds of 190RPM in 50mL tubes
however. Upon learning this, shaker speed for the avian embryonic suspension
adaption experiment 2 (in 50mL tubes) was reduced to 200RPM, following which
we saw a dramatic increase in cell numbers across all cultures. While this
does not necessarily indicate a causal relationship, shaker speeds of 200 RPM
and 175 RMP and  will be trialed  for the upcoming experiments due to the
likelihood of reduced shear stress and improved cell viability.  
  
Media  
We have limited capacity for the number of conditions we can trial in this
experiment due to scientist availability. For our initial trial, all cultures
will be seeded only into Freestyle 293 supplemented with Yeast Extract,
L-Ornithine monohydrochloride, Putrescine, IGF-1, EGF and ACA (this is the
complete Nuvonis Suspension media formulation) +  FGFs as this was previously
shown to support growth in our BOBBO embryonic cell lines. Once we have
identified cell lines that perform relatively well in this media,
optimizations and variations can be investigated in future experiments.

Species/ cell lines  
Of all the species collected during this project, duck appears the most
appealing from a product perspective. This is because we have already used
quail in our first product, and other companies have used chicken on countless
occasions.

  1. Khaki Campbell Duck\- Due to the potential advantages of embryonic eye cells mentioned earlier, the KHAKI DUCK EYE line will be trialed in this experiment. These will be compared to cells derived from the whole body (KHAKIO). Unfortunately the KHAKIK culture did not proliferate well in planar culture, and is therefore not available for use.  
  2. Muscovy Duck- Both MUSCO and MUSCK will be trialed, in order to optimize our chances of successfully developing a duck suspension cell line. 

Conditions

KHAKIO (in Nuvonis + FGF) 175RPM  
KHAKIO (in Nuvonis + FGF) 200RPM  
KHAKI DUCK EYE (in Nuvonis + FGF) 175RPM  
KHAKI DUCK EYE (CONDITIONED Nuvonis + FGF) 200RPM  
KHAKI DUCK EYE (in Nuvonis + FGF)  200RPM  
MUSCK (in Nuvonis + FGF) 175RPM  
MUSCK (in Nuvonis + FGF)  200RPM  
MUSCO (in Nuvonis + FGF) 175RPM  
MUSCO (in Nuvonis + FGF)  200RPM  

References  

1. Vazquez-Ramirez, D., Genzel, Y., Jordan, I., Sandig, V., & Reichl, U. (2018). High-cell-density cultivations to increase MVA virus production. Vaccine, 36(22), 3124-3133. 

2\. Yallop, C., Crowley, J., Cote, J., Hegmans‐Brouwer, K., Lagerwerf, F.,
Gagne, R., ... & Bout, A. (2005). PER. C6® cells for the manufacture of
biopharmaceutical proteins. Modern biopharmaceuticals: design, development and
optimization, 779-807.

3\. Wood, J. P., Chidlow, G., Graham, M., & Osborne, N. N. (2004). Energy
substrate requirements of rat retinal pigmented epithelial cells in culture:
relative importance of glucose, amino acids, and monocarboxylates.
Investigative ophthalmology & visual science, 45(4), 1272-1280.

4\. Zhu, S., Engel, A. L., Wang, Y., Xu, R., Chao, J. R., & Du, J. (2021). RPE
utilizes proline to enhance nutrient availability to the retina. Investigative
Ophthalmology & Visual Science, 62(8), 2231-2231.

5\. Vohra, R., & Kolko, M. (2020). Lactate: more than merely a metabolic waste
product in the inner retina. Molecular Neurobiology, 57(4), 2021-2037.  

6\. Goldman, S. S. (1988). Gluconeogenesis in the amphibian retina. Lactate is
preferred to glutamate as the gluconeogenic precursor. Biochemical Journal,
254(2), 359-365.

7\. Davis, AA; Bernstein, PS; Bok, D; Turner, J; Nachtigal, M; Hunt, RC, "A
human retinal pigment epithelial cell line that retains epithelial
characteristics after prolonged culture," Investigative Ophthalmology and
Visual Science, vol. 36, no. 5, pp. 955-964, 1995.

8\. Fronk, A. H. (2015). Methods for Growing Retinal Pigment Epithelial Cells:
Current Protocols and Future Recommendations.

9\. Mannagh, J., Arya, D. V., & Irvine, A. R. (1973). Tissue culture of human
retinal pigment epithelium. Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science,
12(1), 52-64.


