Aim/Purpose


The aim for this experiment is to perform large scale (3x scaled up - Well
volume of 4mL) tissue engineering with primary Water Buffalo (BUFFY)
myoblasts, to generate on the order of 25-50 grams worth of tissue-engineered
muscle.

The details for literature search and plans that formed the basis of the early
work are outlined here: https://www.notion.so/vow/Buffalo-Wings-Tissue-
Engineering-plan-e0e4d39308564b6383514d5fc3691b07

Following the successful tissue engineering experiments in March 2022 - LINK -
we will be taking this protocol further for this experiment. The matrix to be
used here will be exclusively Collagen I and Matrigel based, as this was the
easiest and best formed protocol.




Perform passage using below volumes:

  


Methods and Experiment Layout


Performed By: Alex




Before Starting Ensure:

  * Calculate required cell densities and volumes of matrix ingredients for large can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nAKlh6US6Xud95YGlDTkI4LHBWjzlAxnhmTym1P2bUw/edit#gid=0
  * Mount large scaffolds in PDMS in 15cm dishes
  * Ensure matrix reagents are made up fresh at required concentrations

Matrix reagents details for this experiment:

  * Make up matrix reagents:
    * Collagen I to 2.6mg/mL - stock is at 6.17mg/mL - dilution factor 1:2.4
      * need ~ 2 mL total (make 2.5 mL)
    * Matrigel is thawed on ice overnight to maintain as liquid




Reagent Prep - 09.5.22

  1. Make up 3L 10% FBS in PBS for neutralisation
    1. Sterile filter 100mL FBS into 900mL of sterile PBS
  2. Make up XXmL Collagen 1 in Sterile MQ water at 2.6mg/ml
  3. Make up 340mL 0.2% Pluronic in MQ Water
  4. Thaw XmL Matrigel
  5. Sterile filter all reagents (except Matrigel): 10xDMEM/F12, Collagen 1, NaOH, 0.2% Pluronic (340mL)

  

Scaffold sterilisation and coating - 08.5.22 + 09.5.22

  1. Ethanol sterilise (completely submerge in 70% Ethanol) for 30 minutes, then leave to air dry in BSC with lids off
    1. Dishes start ethanol =   16 : 30  am  start dry =   17 : 15  am \- 08.5.22
  2. UV irradiate for 30 minutes under the mobile UV lamp - start    09 : 45  am \- 09.5.22
  3. Pre-coat with 0.2% Pluronic solution for 1 hour (to prevent adhesion), start    10 : 30  pm 

  




Cell Harvest plan for large flasks

Ideally, harvest two flasks at a time and perform scaffold seeding one after
each other, this prevents any over-stressing of cells before seeding into
tissues. One flask should be sufficient to seed roughly 1/2 to 3/4 of one
12-well scaffold. For 2 flask harvest, use the large scale 500ml spin bottles
and spin at 1000-1200G for 5 minutes, or until supernatant is clear.

Cell Harvest for scaffold seeding - Flasks 1 and 2 (IDs #XXX, #XXX)

Note: This protocol is to be repeated for 4.5 lots of 2x 10CF (2x per
dissociation)

  1. Wash cells in 2x 10CF with   2x 500mL   PBS, start    :   pm 
  2. Dissociate cells (in 2x 10CF) with   2x 500mL   TryplE for 15-20 minutes - try to use as low volume as possible, start    :   pm 
  3. Neutralise with  2x  200mL 10% FBS/PBS  
  4. Wash using  2x  300mL 10% FBS/PBS  
  5. Centrifuge at 1200g for 5 minutes: start    :  pm 
  6. Gently flick cells to dislodge pellet and resuspend each 500mL spin bottle in   10mL  Growth Media
    1. N.B. Try for low volume for resuspension, so that yield is well in excess of cell density needed (Aim here for ~10M cells per 1mL to be safe)
  7. Combine both spin bottles into 70mL/120mL urine jar 
  8. Count cells with haemocytometer for total yields:
    1. Total yield per 2 flasks =    million   

    2. Total volume per 2 flasks =     mL  
    3. Cell concentration. =     cells/mL  
  9. Dilute cell mixture to 5M cells/mL with growth media
    1. Necessary media volume to add =     mL  

  

Matrix formation for scaffold seeding \- Flasks 1 and 2

  1. Add Collagen I (Devro: final concentration 2.6mg/ml) and mix well with stripette (not resuspending):
    1. Collagen I volume to add =     mL  
  2. Add 10xDMEM/F12 and mix with stripette:
    1. 10x DMEM volume to add =     mL  
  3. Add 0.1M Sodium Hydroxide and mix with stripette:
    1. NaOH volume to add =     mL  
  4. Add Matrigel and mix with stripette:
    1. Matrigel volume to add =     mL  
  5. Remove pluronic from wells
  6. Seed    4mL    gel/matrix gently into scaffold ensuring good distribution around pillars in the well 
  7. Leave for    60-90    minutes to gel at 37°C - start time    : pm  
  8. Add Growth Medium to wells if plate is not full, if plate is full, add    150mL   growth media to entire 15mL dish, ensure scaffold is covered




Cell Harvest plan for large flasks

Ideally, harvest two flasks at a time and perform scaffold seeding one after
each other, this prevents any over-stressing of cells before seeding into
tissues. One flask should be sufficient to seed roughly 1/2 to 3/4 of one
12-well scaffold. For 2 flask harvest, use the large scale 500ml spin bottles
and spin at 1000-1200G for 5 minutes, or until supernatant is clear.

Cell Harvest for scaffold seeding - Flasks 3 and 4 (IDs #XXX, #XXX)

Note: This protocol is to be repeated for 4.5 lots of 2x 10CF (2x per
dissociation)

  1. Wash cells in 2x 10CF with   2x 500mL   PBS, start    :   pm 
  2. Dissociate cells (in 2x 10CF) with   2x 500mL   TryplE for 15-20 minutes - try to use as low volume as possible, start    :   pm 
  3. Neutralise with  2x  200mL 10% FBS/PBS  
  4. Wash using  2x  300mL 10% FBS/PBS  
  5. Centrifuge at 1200g for 5 minutes: start    :  pm 
  6. Gently flick cells to dislodge pellet and resuspend each 500mL spin bottle in   10mL  Growth Media
    1. N.B. Try for low volume for resuspension, so that yield is well in excess of cell density needed (Aim here for ~10M cells per 1mL to be safe)
  7. Combine both spin bottles into 70mL/120mL urine jar 
  8. Count cells with haemocytometer for total yields:
    1. Total yield per 2 flasks =    million   

    2. Total volume per 2 flasks =     mL  
    3. Cell concentration. =     cells/mL  
  9. Dilute cell mixture to 5M cells/mL with growth media
    1. Necessary media volume to add =     mL  

  

Matrix formation for scaffold seeding \- Flasks 3 and 4

  1. Add Collagen I (Devro: final concentration 2.6mg/ml) and mix well with stripette (not resuspending):
    1. Collagen I volume to add =     mL  
  2. Add 10xDMEM/F12 and mix with stripette:
    1. 10x DMEM volume to add =     mL  
  3. Add 0.1M Sodium Hydroxide and mix with stripette:
    1. NaOH volume to add =     mL  
  4. Add Matrigel and mix with stripette:
    1. Matrigel volume to add =     mL  
  5. Remove pluronic from wells
  6. Seed    4mL    gel/matrix gently into scaffold ensuring good distribution around pillars in the well 
  7. Leave for    60-90    minutes to gel at 37°C - start time    : pm  
  8. Add Growth Medium to wells if plate is not full, if plate is full, add    150mL   growth media to entire 15mL dish, ensure scaffold is covered




Cell Harvest plan for large flasks

Ideally, harvest two flasks at a time and perform scaffold seeding one after
each other, this prevents any over-stressing of cells before seeding into
tissues. One flask should be sufficient to seed roughly 1/2 to 3/4 of one
12-well scaffold. For 2 flask harvest, use the large scale 500ml spin bottles
and spin at 1000-1200G for 5 minutes, or until supernatant is clear.

Cell Harvest for scaffold seeding - Flasks 5 and 6 (IDs #XXX, #XXX)

Note: This protocol is to be repeated for 4.5 lots of 2x 10CF (2x per
dissociation)

  1. Wash cells in 2x 10CF with   2x 500mL   PBS, start    :   pm 
  2. Dissociate cells (in 2x 10CF) with   2x 500mL   TryplE for 15-20 minutes - try to use as low volume as possible, start    :   pm 
  3. Neutralise with  2x  200mL 10% FBS/PBS  
  4. Wash using  2x  300mL 10% FBS/PBS  
  5. Centrifuge at 1200g for 5 minutes: start    :  pm 
  6. Gently flick cells to dislodge pellet and resuspend each 500mL spin bottle in   10mL  Growth Media
    1. N.B. Try for low volume for resuspension, so that yield is well in excess of cell density needed (Aim here for ~10M cells per 1mL to be safe)
  7. Combine both spin bottles into 70mL/120mL urine jar 
  8. Count cells with haemocytometer for total yields:
    1. Total yield per 2 flasks =    million   

    2. Total volume per 2 flasks =     mL  
    3. Cell concentration. =     cells/mL  
  9. Dilute cell mixture to 5M cells/mL with growth media
    1. Necessary media volume to add =     mL  

  

Matrix formation for scaffold seeding \- Flasks 5 and 6

  1. Add Collagen I (Devro: final concentration 2.6mg/ml) and mix well with stripette (not resuspending):
    1. Collagen I volume to add =     mL  
  2. Add 10xDMEM/F12 and mix with stripette:
    1. 10x DMEM volume to add =     mL  
  3. Add 0.1M Sodium Hydroxide and mix with stripette:
    1. NaOH volume to add =     mL  
  4. Add Matrigel and mix with stripette:
    1. Matrigel volume to add =     mL  
  5. Remove pluronic from wells
  6. Seed    4mL    gel/matrix gently into scaffold ensuring good distribution around pillars in the well 
  7. Leave for    60-90    minutes to gel at 37°C - start time    : pm  
  8. Add Growth Medium to wells if plate is not full, if plate is full, add    150mL   growth media to entire 15mL dish, ensure scaffold is covered




Cell Harvest plan for large flasks

Ideally, harvest two flasks at a time and perform scaffold seeding one after
each other, this prevents any over-stressing of cells before seeding into
tissues. One flask should be sufficient to seed roughly 1/2 to 3/4 of one
12-well scaffold. For 2 flask harvest, use the large scale 500ml spin bottles
and spin at 1000-1200G for 5 minutes, or until supernatant is clear.

Cell Harvest for scaffold seeding - Flasks 7 and 8 (IDs #XXX, #XXX)

Note: This protocol is to be repeated for 4.5 lots of 2x 10CF (2x per
dissociation)

  1. Wash cells in 2x 10CF with   2x 500mL   PBS, start    :   pm 
  2. Dissociate cells (in 2x 10CF) with   2x 500mL   TryplE for 15-20 minutes - try to use as low volume as possible, start    :   pm 
  3. Neutralise with  2x  200mL 10% FBS/PBS  
  4. Wash using  2x  300mL 10% FBS/PBS  
  5. Centrifuge at 1200g for 5 minutes: start    :  pm 
  6. Gently flick cells to dislodge pellet and resuspend each 500mL spin bottle in   10mL  Growth Media
    1. N.B. Try for low volume for resuspension, so that yield is well in excess of cell density needed (Aim here for ~10M cells per 1mL to be safe)
  7. Combine both spin bottles into 70mL/120mL urine jar 
  8. Count cells with haemocytometer for total yields:
    1. Total yield per 2 flasks =    million   

    2. Total volume per 2 flasks =     mL  
    3. Cell concentration. =     cells/mL  
  9. Dilute cell mixture to 5M cells/mL with growth media
    1. Necessary media volume to add =     mL  

  

Matrix formation for scaffold seeding \- Flasks 7 and 8

  1. Add Collagen I (Devro: final concentration 2.6mg/ml) and mix well with stripette (not resuspending):
    1. Collagen I volume to add =     mL  
  2. Add 10xDMEM/F12 and mix with stripette:
    1. 10x DMEM volume to add =     mL  
  3. Add 0.1M Sodium Hydroxide and mix with stripette:
    1. NaOH volume to add =     mL  
  4. Add Matrigel and mix with stripette:
    1. Matrigel volume to add =     mL  
  5. Remove pluronic from wells
  6. Seed    4mL    gel/matrix gently into scaffold ensuring good distribution around pillars in the well 
  7. Leave for    60-90    minutes to gel at 37°C - start time    : pm  
  8. Add Growth Medium to wells if plate is not full, if plate is full, add    150mL   growth media to entire 15mL dish, ensure scaffold is covered




Tips and Tricks for this protocol:

  * When pelleting cells, make sure they are completely dry
  * Flick pellet to dislodge before adding medium
  * Add Medium first to pellet to prevent clumping and cell death
  * Col1 is very viscous, pipette carefully - when adding 10x DMEM, it turns yellow
  * As soon as you add the NaOH, be quick as the Col starts to gel
  * Everything has to be exact, don't be tempted to add more cells than the volume stated if there are some left
  * Add cells slowly!


