Passage 3 - 2x wells in 6 well plate into 3x wells in 6 well plates


# Procedure - Passage

### Note: Fibroblasts do NOT require Gelatin coated Flasks, and do NOT require
p38i.

1\. Turn on water bath and set temperature to 32'C.

2\. Place new seeding flasks into the 32'C incubator to pre-warm.

3\. Take the wells for harvest and observe under the microscope at 4x
objective for even cell distribution . Refer to VSOP-006. Take 2-3 images per
well at 4x and at 10x.

4\. Aliquot required volume of dPBS (32'C), dPBS (ambient temp), TrypLE, and
Growth Media in separate sterile pots. Refer to Table below for required
volume.

``

5\. Place aliquots in pre-warmed water bath and leave for ~20 minutes or until
warmed. Note: Ensure TrypLE is thoroughly warmed.

6\. Choose 2 out the 3 wells to passage.

7\. Discard growth media from each flask.

8\. Wash with warmed dPBS, then discard.

9\. Add TrypLE to each of the well. Mix thoroughly to ensure coverage of the
surface area.

10\. Place in the incubator at 32'C. After 5 minutes, remove wells and observe
for 95-100% dissociation of cells. Incubate further until maximum dissociation
level is reached.  
NOTE: The flasks must be removed from the incubator within 18 minutes of
initial incubation of TrypLE containing flasks.

11\. Pippette the TrypLE solution from the the two wells into a 50mL
centrifuge tube.

12\. Add ambient temperature dPBS to each well as a final wash, pippetting
across surface of the well to remove excess cells. Pour the dPBS into the 50mL
centrifuge tube.

13\. Centrifuge at 650 x g for 5 minutes.````

14\. Gently remove centrifuge tubes from the machine, ensuring not to disturb
the suspended pellets. Aspirate as much supernatant as possible from the
tubes. Discard supernatant.

15\. Re-suspend the cell pellets in the centrifuge tube with 2 mL of media.

16\. Once cells have been resuspended in the individual centrifuge tubes.

18\. Perform cell count (Refer to VSOP-007) and enter details into Production
Cell Count Calculator: VBLT-001 and Cell Count Widget.

19\. Triturate the obtained cell suspension 10 times using a 5mL serological
pipette to ensure a homogeneous cell suspension is obtained.

20\. Determine the required volume of suspension media (to achieve seeding
density of roughly 7500 cells/cm2, surface area of a 6 well plate is 9.6 cm2)
and dispense into pre-aliquoted growth media. Use Production Cell Count
Calculator: VBLT-001, and record the values in the seeding widget.

21\. Transfer wells from the incubator into the BSC.

22\. Transfer required growth media + cells into 3 wells of a 6 well plate.

23\. Transfer the flasks into the 32'C incubator. Refer to Appendix 3 for
incubation conditions.

  

References

Referenced Method: Section 8 under VSOP-005 & VSOP-009

Cell Counting SOP: VSOP-007

Cell Counting Spreadsheet v2:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jQXPGFq-6xJwA8WL-
UyYJmaMj4v29AW1gxPbCe2Jsc8/edit#gid=1536445053


