Aim:


To determine the optimal individual and combinatorial concentrations of Ficoll
PM 70 and Ficoll PM 400 to produce deposited ECM sheets through macro
molecular crowding.


Background


Both Ficoll PM 70 and Ficoll PM 400 have been top candidates among the macro
molecular crowders tested at Vow thus far and in literature. We have employed
concentrations recommended by literature for both of these crowders to varying
success, however it was seen through preliminary experiments there was room
for optimisation with the concentrations of the crowders (see DSD #1
experiment) . To elaborate, some ECM deposition was seen in cell monolayer
sheets, a portion of the ECM remains suspended in the media. Moreover, these
preliminary MMC experiments were demonstrated in crowded growth media
containing a high amount of serum, and the concentrations determined in serum
may not translate directly in the newfound ACF formulation we have developed.

Thus, a combinatorial concentration study was required to understand the ideal
individual and in-combination concentration for each crowder that deposits all
of the ECM generated into the cell sheet rather than the media. Overall, the
data from this experiment has been mostly inconclusive (DSD #1), however one
replicate showed a distinct increase in collagen deposition as the
concentration of crowders (both individually and in combination) increased.
This would indicate that the highest yield of collagen is yet to reach a point
of saturation and the concentration of both Ficoll crowders can be increased
further still. Moreover, this result was not replicates with the other two
replicates in the study and hence should be repeated in some form.  
  
This experiment aims to leverage the same plans and workflow from MMC DSD #1
while also increasing the concentration of crowders to ideally reach a
saturation point for collagen yield.


Layout
  
  
Figure 1: Layout of a 48 well plate depicting the condition of each cell. Each
cell contains a combination of Ficoll PM 400/Ficoll PM 70 concentrations
(mg/ml).  
  
  


  
  
Figure 2: Table depicting the amounts of concentrated stock and basal media
required to make each dilution for Ficoll 40.


  
  
Figure 3: Table depicting the amounts of concentrated stock and basal media
required to make each dilution for Ficoll 400


  
  
Day

Task

Requirements  
  
0

  * Seed 6 x 48 well plates with 20 million cells per well in ACF adherent media

  * 6 x Corning 48 well Tissue Culture treated plates 

  * ACF adherent media (DMEM/F12 + BSA (18.75 mg/ml) + LAA2P (150ug/ml) + 1X ITS + 1X P/S

  
  
1

  * Make up a 2X stock of 75 mg/ml Ficoll PM 70 in ACF adherent media (will become 1X when combined in 50/50 with F400)

  * Make up a 2X stock of 50 mg/ml Ficoll PM 400 in ACF adherent media (will become 1X when combined in 50/50 with F70)

  * Perform dilutions to achieve each of the dilutions outlined above.

  * Perform media change and aliquot 150uL of Ficoll 70 and 150uL of Ficoll 400 (50:50) as outlined in Figure 1 with the respective concentrations.

  * Ficoll PM 400

  * Ficoll PM 70

  * ACF adherent media (Basal Media)

  * Opentrons Liquid Handling Robot (optional)

  
  
7

  * Fix each well with 4% PFA

  * Quantify each cell sheet and media in each well with Sirius Red to analyse collagen content at 560nm.

  * 4% PFA

  * Sirius Red

  * Spectrostar Nano Plate Reader

  * Data analysis software


Analysis
  
  
Metrics for success:

  * Collagen content deposited between conditions
  * Collagen content deposited vs Collagen content suspended in media (ratio) between conditions
  * Overall collagen produced between conditions

  








