Aim/Purpose


Background

Using the foundations built up during the "Buffalo Wings" prototype work, we
will trial tissue engineering at larger scales and using suspension adapted
cells (Nuvonis fibroblasts predominantly). This work is part of the Mini-
Tissues workstream for the Second Product, more can be read about this here.
Initial Buffalo Wings experimental plans and lab books can be found here. The
current model of the solid moulds requires embedding in  PDMS, as such, the
tissues are very difficult to harvest from. This experiment will be performed
using a novel design where the pillars (tissue attachment points) are
detachable, therefore making tissues much easier to harvest.

Figure 1. CAD drawing of removable pillar design

Aim

Determine the optimal centrifugation time for the pelleting of the Nuvonis
suspension cells prior to creating the tissue gel.


Methods and Experiment Layout


Brief Method

The method followed here will be very similar to the one used for the Buffalo
Wings prototype large scale harvest. Briefly, this method will use Nuvonis
cells, embedded in a tissue gel matrix consisting of defined ratios of:
Collagen I, 10x DMEM/F12, and 0.1M Sodium Hydroxide. This allows the formation
of tissues via the process of tissue gelation, condensation and self-assembly
around 2 attachment points (Figure 1) - See Notion page for summary of
approach. However, for this experiment we will be excluding Matrigel given we
observed tissue formation in the absence of Matrigel (Experiment 3: Matrigel
Reduction).

  

Figure 1. Myoblast tissues self assembled around 2 attachment points of a 3D
printed solid mould (white)

  

  

Aim 1:  Determine the optimal centrifugation time for the pelleting of the
Nuvonis suspension cells prior to creating the tissue gel.  
  
Experiment Plan

We will seed four moulds with 9 tissues each at a cell density of 40 million
cells per mL (finding of current max density with "well-formed" tissues from
experiment 4).

Tissues will be created via 4 different approaches to centrifuging the cells
prior to creating the tissue gel and seeding into the moulds.

  1. 500g for 5 minutes in 500mL centrifuge tubes 
  2. 500g for 10 minutes in 500mL centrifuge tubes 
  3. 2000g for 5 minutes in 500mL centrifuge tubes 
  4. 500g in 50mL falcon tubes 

Tissues will be cultured for 5 days in Pen/Strep, changed to P/S free media
for 2 days and harvested after 7 days.

 Tissues will be used for immunoanalysis, flow cytometry, molecular analysis
and product testing.

  




Before Starting

  * Calculate approximate cell requirements for experiment 8
    * = Approximately 5,760 million cells for 4 plates at 40 M cells/mL
  * Calculate required cell densities and volumes of matrix ingredients for large can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nAKlh6US6Xud95YGlDTkI4LHBWjzlAxnhmTym1P2bUw/edit#gid=1981262089
    * Total volumes for experiment:
      * Collagen I = 58.464mL
      * 10x DMEM/F12 = 7.056mL
      * 0.1M NaOH = 8.784mL
  * Autoclave 4x large Nylon scaffolds, ~~2% agar (for embedding moulds)~~ , 1x pair of forceps ~~  and mould weights (Jesi - Aluminium rods in PDMS)~~
  * Ensure matrix reagents are made up fresh and sterile filtered at required concentrations. 

Matrix reagents details for this experiment:

  * Make up matrix reagents:
    * Collagen I to 2.6mg/mL - stock is at 6.17mg/mL - dilution factor 1:2.4
      * need ~ 58.464 mL total (make 60 mL)


