

Instructions: https://www.notion.so/vow/Final-Report-
Template_V2-8e9c698481a74ceda6d9fd29b13222d9?d=96850977c0cc4a0db35eb0b550fe99f5#9ea41d1bead84e64b05b40ac5ba5c28f

An experimental report should be open for every Vowzer to access, read and
understand the following:

  * why we did a certain experiment
  * how we went about planning and executing it
  * what the outcomes were / lessons learned
  * what the next steps are moving forward

We break these up into 6 sections in a report that should be clearly distinct
and easy to follow. They are:

  1. Introduction
  2. Materials/Methods
  3. Results
  4. Discussion
  5. Conclusions
  6. Future directions/next steps

  


Introduction


  * What was the experiment trying to address?
  * An important metric here is the why. Why was this experiment commissioned in the first place, and what value did we expect to get out of it? How does it feed into the larger mission/direction at Vow?
  * Re-state the aims and whether they were successfully addressed (with success or not).
  * Make sure you cite any information you've gathered from external sources if applicable. Generate citation list at end of report if there are any.

In this experiment we aimed to determine how the addition of new factors and
the reduction of current factors in our 50:50 RPMI:CHO Nuvonis medium would
impact maximum cell density in a batch-mode system. In order to produce a
profitable first product, we need to be able to grow our cells to 7.5M
cells/mL in the bioreactor. Currently, we are consistently reaching densities
of 2.5-3M cells/mL in R&D. It is also important to keep input costs down, and
to minimise how many supplements are added after the medium is mixed, as this
poses a contamination risk and adds more labour.

A 6-factor definitive screening design (DSD) was used in order to analyse both
main effects and factor interactions of our tested ingredients. The factors
selected for testing were albumin, an in-house amino acid mix, IGF-1-LR3, EGF,
trace elements A, and trace elements B. Reverse-engineering showed that HyCell
contains some form of BSA, and albumin is commonly added to animal component-
free growth medium for fibroblasts and other cell types [1, 2]. The amino acid
mix was used to increase a select group of amino acids to the same
concentration present in HyCell medium. IGF-1-LR3 and EGF are both present in
the original Nuvonis formulation specified in the tech transfer; if we can
remove these from the medium without reducing cell density it would make our
medium cheaper, less susceptible to contamination, and reduce labour for team
MFG. Trace elements A & B are chemically defined mixes of minerals that are
beneficial for cell growth [3].

[1] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7513867/

[2] https://bioone.org/journals/zoological-
science/volume-17/issue-2/zsj.17.201/Improved-Serum-free-Defined-Medium-for-
Proliferation-and-Differentiation-of/10.2108/zsj.17.201.full

[3] https://www.fishersci.com/shop/products/corning-cellgro-trace-
elements-3/MT99175CI


Materials/Methods


  * What was the overall design of the experiment?
    * How long was it expected to take? How long did it actually take?
  * Lay out the step-by-step process (overview) of the experiment, feel free to use graphs/flow charts to explain this.
  * Add links to SOPs used within this experiment.
  * Mention any deviations from SOPs and why they were made.

This experiment was a 6-factor DSD, designed using JMP software. 57 x E-125s
were seeded at 200K cells/mL in 30 mL of growth medium. This accounted for 18
different conditions generated by the DSD matrix and a control condition of
our current in-house R&D formulation, with three replicates of each condition.
The experiment was seeded on Friday 26-August, and counts were performed daily
from day 3 to day 9.


Results


In this section, state results without your interpretations behind it. For
example: Here, aim for 'molecule x increased glucose uptake of myoblasts.',
rather than 'molecule x increased glucose uptake of myoblasts indicating that
glucose uptake is controlled by pathway y.' Leave your interpretations for the
Discussion section.

  * Describe the results of the experiment in general terms.
  * Add in any summary tables/images/figures of the results to back up your statements.
  * Caption each table/image/figure with relevant details (microscope magnifications, n values, p values [if applicable])
  * Results should be directly relevant to the aims of the experiment.

  

Figure 1. Actual by Predicated Plot



Figure 2. Sorted parameter estimates



Figure 3. Prediction profiler





Figure 4. Maximum cell density vs. DSD condition

Written summary of results  

  1. EGF had a positive effect on maximum cell density (significant)
  2. Albumin had a negative effect on maximum cell density (significant)
  3. Trace elements B did not have a significant effect 
  4. Trace elements A did not have a significant effect 
  5. IGF did not have a significant effect 
  6. Amino acids did not have a significant effect 
  7. Conditions 14, 7, 5 and 4 were the best performers (>2M cells/mL)


Conclusions

  * Sum up the results of the experiment as succinctly as possible, this can be a short paragraph or a single line. Copy this to your Header Summary Page for the experiment/writeup.
  * If the experiment was unsuccessful, don't feel you need to over-complicate the results. Explain why it was not successful and any key learnings.

EGF has a significantly positive effect on maximum cell density, albumin has a
significantly negative effect on maximum cell density, and trace elements A &
B, amino acids, and IGF do significantly impact maximum cell density.


Discussion


Time to expand on your results. Use this section as an opportunity to explain
your interpretation of the above results (don't leave any table/image/figure
un-mentioned, if it's part of the results it should be mentioned in your
discussion.

  * Discuss the implications for these findings or the reason that things might have worked out this way. Move on to the next set of results and repeat the process.
  * Be critical, are there any competing factors that may have interfered with the experiment and influenced the results? If so, state them and explain their potential impact on the perceived results. This may tie into next steps (ways to improve the experimental design to mitigate those risks).
  * Imagine you are reading this report for the first time with no knowledge of the experiment but want to know the key results and what they mean.
  * Discuss any limitations that may have impacted your work - explain their potential impact on the results and how that affects your interpretation.

  

Amino acids

Their non-significance could be due to solubility issues during media mixing

Or could be that they don't have a significant impact but will be overall
beneficial as we continue to build the media

Albumin

Ranger - "Albumin has been shown to have both positive and negative effects on
fibroblast cell growth in vitro. This is thought to be mediated by the binding
of albumin to cell surface receptors, which leads to up- or downregulation of
signaling pathways involved in cell proliferation"

In-house results have showed that albumin is the key component in enabling
Nuvonis suspension cells to return to an adherent culture state, indicating
that it plays a key role in cell adhesion. This is clearly a negative
attribute in single-cell suspension culture. (Link to results)

"More cells in the G0/G1 phase and fewer cells in S and G2/M phases were
obtained in Alb(+) than in Alb(âˆ’)"

"The same results were obtained in HepG2. Cell proliferation was inhibited in
5 g/dL albumin medium in both HepG2 cells and Hep3B cells in 24 h culture by
counting cell numbers. The presence of albumin in serum reduces the
phosphorylation of Rb proteins and enhances the expression of p21 and p57,
following an increase in the G0/G1 cell population, and suppresses cell
proliferation. These results suggest that albumin itself suppresses the
proliferation of hepatocellular carcinoma."

https://www.mdpi.com/1422-0067/15/3/5163/htm  

Additive effects of IGF and EGF - maybe masking the significance of IGF

"In some epithelial cells, the effects of EGF and IGF1 are additive or
synergistic.[9 - 11] It has been postulated that the reason for the additivity
is that they work on different points in the cell cycle. EGF may act as a
socalled ''competence factor'' stimulating quiescent cells in G0 to enter the
cell cycle while IGF-1 acts primarily in G1 to S phase transition, acting as a
so-called ''progression factor.''[9 - 11] However, EGF in some cells also
stimulates cells in G1 phase to progress to S phase."

"We find that under control conditions in these epithelial cells the effects
of EGF and IGF-1 are additive in their ability to stimulate proliferation as
judged by [3 H]thymidine uptake. Such findings have also been demonstrated by
others in non-renal epithelial injury.[9 - 11] That these factors were
additive at their individual maximal doses suggests that at least some of
their effects are through different mechanisms."

https://sci-hub.hkvisa.net/10.1081/jdi-120028538

"The combination of EGF at 5 nM and IGF-I at 1 and 10 nM worked
synergistically, increasing cell counts over baseline to 10.3 +/- 0.2 and 14.6
+/- 0.8 x 10(5), respectively. The calculated additive effect of EGF and IGF-I
at 1 and 10 nM individually increased cell counts to 8.2 +/- 0.2 and 10.4 +/-
0.6 x 10(5), respectively."

"IGF and EGF in combination demonstrate synergism with potentiated interaction
presumably because of their different roles in the cell cycle, EGF being a
competence factor and IGF being a progression factor."

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/9224406/


Future Directions/Next Steps


  * Provide a short paragraph or some dot points on the work that is to follow on from this experiment, e.g. repeats, new conditions, troubleshooting etc.

  

[Text here]


