

## Completed by: LL & AS


General overview


We have recently uncovered some new information about CHO-in-1 medium. First
of all, it does not contain L-Glutamine. L-Glutamine is an essential amino
acid that is crucial for mammalian cell growth in culture. Glutamine supports
the growth of cells with high energy demands and is used as an alternative
energy source to glucose [1].

Furthermore, CHO-in-1 contains 6 g/L glucose. We know that Nuvonis cells can
grow well with this concentration of glucose, as Freestyle (the recommended
basal medium for this cell line) contains roughly the same amount. However,
when we dilute CHO-in-1 with RPMI, we are reducing the concentration to a
potentially harmful level for cell growth. For example, 50/50 RPMI/CHO-in-1
contains just 4 g/L glucose, which is equivalent to 22 mM, while 75/25 is only
16.6 mM. For context, growth media with <20 mM glucose is typically classified
as "low glucose" [2]. Glucose is a major energy source for proliferating
cells: animal cells use it as a primary fuel source, and is involved in
multiple key metabolic pathways.

Finally, CHO-in-1 does not have any hypoxanthine or thymidine. These
ingredients are less essential than those previously mentioned, however they
can be beneficial for stimulating cell growth. Hypoxanthine is a purine
derivative, meaning it is involved in the manufacturing of adenine and guanine
(two of the nitrogen bases that hold DNA strands together). Thymidine is
likewise involved in DNA replication. A supplement of these two chemicals can
be used when cells have begun using the salvage pathway to produce nucleosides
to get them back to the de novo biosynthesis pathway. Once the pathway as been
re-established, supplementation can stop [3]. It is still worth investigating
these chemicals' impact in the base medium (on day 0), as there are a number
of formulations that include these additives [4].

This experiment will focus on initial supplementation with each of these
chemicals at varying concentrations to determine which are crucial at day 0 of
cell culture.


L-Glutamine


L-Glutamine is the most abundant intracellular amino acid; it is a key player
in the production of ATP, NADPH and is a precursor for the synthesis of
macromolecules e.g. nucleic acids and phospholipids [5]. The concern with
L-glutamine supplementation is that is readily degrades at physiological pH in
liquid media, and breaks down to ammonia, which is toxic to cells [6]. It is
therefore important to either only supplement with L-glutamine as needed, or
to use a more stable form. One such form is alanylglutamine, a dipeptide
molecule consisting of L-glutamine and L-alanine which has better solubility
and stability than L-glutamine alone.

CHO-in-1 does not contain any L-glutamine in the basal media powder, as
mentioned in the "General Overview" above. The concentration of L-Glutamine in
open-source growth media ranges from around 0.1 to 1.4614 g/L (0.684 - 10 mM)
[7] [8]. The RPMI-1640 formulation we use to dilute our CHO-in-1 medium
contains 0.3 g/L (2 mM) [7], so in a 50/50 and 75/25 mix, our media contains 1
and 0.5 mM respectively. The typical recommendation for bio-manufacturing and
tissue engineering is to supplement media with 2-4 mM L-Glutamine [9].

In this experiment we will be using a 50/50 mix of RPMI/CHO-in-1, in which the
concentration of L-glutamine is 0.15 g/L, or 1 mM. We will test five
concentrations: 1, 2, 3, and 4 and 5 mM. We will also test the five
concentrations of L-glutamine using a dipeptide form (alanylglutamine).


Glucose


Glucose is one of the main sources of fuel for the majority of cell types. It
is added to cell culture media in concentrations ranging from 1 g/L (5.5 mM)
to as high as 10 g/L (55 mM) [10]. Concentrations of 5.5 mM mimics normal
blood sugar levels, while 10 or >10 mM would be considered pre-diabetic and
diabetic, respectively [10]. High levels of glucose in media can be
detrimental to many cell types, however it is not uncommon for media to
contain diabetic levels of glucose supplementation. With respect to cell
culture, 5.5 mM is considered a low glucose media, while 30 mM is considered
high glucose media.

From our work on reverse-engineering proprietary high-density media, we
discovered that HyCell contains ~9 g/L (49 mM), Freestyle contains ~6 g/L (33
mM), and CDM4 contains ~7 (39 mM) g/L. In comparison, RPMI-1640 contains 2 g/L
(11 mM). While the Nuvonis cells grow well in all three high-density media, we
have achieved the highest maximum cell density in HyCell [11]. One reason for
this could be the high glucose levels.

In this experiment we will be using a 50/50 mix of RPMI/CHO-in-1, in which the
concentration of glucose is 4 g/L, or 22 mM. We will test five concentrations:
6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 g/L.


Hypoxanthine


Hypoxanthine (6-hydroxypurine) is a naturally occurring compound involved in
purine base pair synthesis. It is the deaminated form of adenine and a
breakdown product of adenosine monophosphate (AMP) [12]. Hypoxanthine is
commonly used for a variety of cell culture applications.

Supplementation improves barrier function and wound healing by increasing
intracellular ATP [13]. Hypoxanthine and thymine (HT) in combination is known
to increase cell growth of CHO cells and thus antibody production [14].
Hypoxanthine enhances the proliferation activity in porcine aortic endothelial
cells (PAEC) when supplemented at 0.1 μCi/6 μM, final concentration, in 0.4 mL
DMEM [15]. It's important to also note that hypoxanthine is also capable of
stimulating cell death. It induces reactive oxygen species (ROS) which causes
oxidative stress and apoptosis [16].

HyCell media contains 0.0047 g/L (34 uM) of Hypoxanthine. In this experiment,
we will test 10, 30, 50, 70, 90 uM Hypoxanthine.


Thymidine


Thymidine is a pyrimidine deoxynucleoside. It is a DNA synthesis inhibitor
that has the ability to arrest cell at G1/S boundary before DNA replication
[17].

Supplementing media with 100 µM thymidine along with other nucleosides is
shown to significantly improve growth of CHO cells [18].

Thymidine is often supplemented alongside hypoxanthine, in an "HT supplement"
or in "HAT media". According to Thermo Fisher and CSH protocols, a 100X
solution of HT contains 10 mM hypoxanthine and 1.6 mM thymidine [19] [20].
This would mean a final media concentration of 100 mM and 16 uM hypoxanthine
and thymidine, respectively. Likewise, ATCC sells a 500X stock of HT with a
final concentration of 99 uM hypoxanthine, 15 uM thymidine [21].

In this experiment we will test 1.6, 4.8, 8, 11.2 and 14.4 uM thymidine.


References


[1] https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/AU/en/technical-documents/technical-
article/cell-culture-and-cell-culture-analysis/mammalian-cell-
culture/glutamine

[2]
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6095543/#:~:text=Therefore%2C%2030%20mM%20is%20the,compared%20with%20typical%20culture%20media.

[3]
https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/11067030?s_kwcid=AL.3652.3.345664482396.e..g..ht%20supplement&ef_id=CjwKCAjwh-
CVBhB8EiwAjFEPGUJTo8Oap4oldk8_x8pX9UgLFPILRNKQOYAY-
AdXEXI7f9GRU2uD5RoCZmoQAvD_BwE:G:s&s_kwcid=AL!3652!3!345664482396!e!!g!!ht%20supplement&cid=bid_clb_cce_r01_co_cp0000_pjt0000_bid00000_0se_gaw_nt_pur_con&gclid=CjwKCAjwh-
CVBhB8EiwAjFEPGUJTo8Oap4oldk8_x8pX9UgLFPILRNKQOYAY-
AdXEXI7f9GRU2uD5RoCZmoQAvD_BwE

[4] Ranger media comparison tool (see figures below)

  

[5] https://www.scielo.br/j/bjmbr/a/HnKLvvJXLwTXg8WfCKx3Xvn/?lang=en

[6] https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/AU/en/technical-documents/technical-
article/cell-culture-and-cell-culture-analysis/mammalian-cell-
culture/glutamine

[7] Ranger media comparison tool (see figure below)

[8] https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/AU/en/technical-documents/technical-
article/cell-culture-and-cell-culture-analysis/mammalian-cell-
culture/glutamine

[9] https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/rmb2.12024

[10]
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7698585/#:~:text=Glucose%20is%20a%20soluble%20sugar,%2FL%20(55%20mM)

[11] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520R&D/ODg0Ny44MDAwMDAwMDAwMDF8MTA2MzE3LzY4MDYvVHJlZU5vZGUvMjEzNTE3OTY0MnwyMjQ1OS44

[12]
https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/AU/en/product/sigma/h9636?gclid=Cj0KCQjw8O-VBhCpARIsACMvVLPtZPcWjTgeVaSDiFP4IXdhX2oAVmZtTydFlLm29M_mZE_Hm6o3RMwaAgrVEALw_wcB

[13] https://www.jbc.org/article/S0021-9258(20)40953-6/fulltext

[14] https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21805168/

[15] https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/7683470/  

[16]
https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/AU/en/product/sigma/h9636?gclid=Cj0KCQjw8O-VBhCpARIsACMvVLPtZPcWjTgeVaSDiFP4IXdhX2oAVmZtTydFlLm29M_mZE_Hm6o3RMwaAgrVEALw_wcB

[17]
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6156087/#:~:text=Thymidine%20is%20a%20DNA%20synthesis,by%20using%20double%20thymidine%20block.

[18] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6546773/

[19]
http://cshprotocols.cshlp.org/content/2021/9/pdb.rec105148.full?text_only=true#:~:text=Hypoxanthine%2C%20aminopterin%2C%20and%20thymidine%20selection,O%20suitable%20for%20tissue%20culture.

[20] https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/11067030

[21] https://www.atcc.org/products/71-x


