

## Completed by: VP


Aim/Purpose


to demonstrate that Nuvonis cells undergo no/limited genetic drift during
bioprocess. Cells will be collected and processed for DNA extraction at start
(WCB) and end (following x2 shake flask culture passages and x2 in a stir-tank
reactor (STR) passages) points during our bioprocess


Hypothesis


cells will exhibit no genetic changes between start and end sampling time
points


Background & Technical Gap


Previously published studies have robustly demonstrated that in vitro
subculture represents a selection pressure on cell lines, and over time this
may result in a genetic drift (Torsvik et al 2014, Hughes et al 2018).
Moreover, consecutive passaging increases the risk of cross-contamination with
other cell lines. To satisfy regulatory requirements outlined by the Singapore
Food Agency (SFA), safety dossier data must demonstrate that the genome of
cells from working cell bank (WCB) vials does not differ from the genome of
cells contributing to the final saleable product. This will be achieved by
thawing cells from a WCB and then culturing these in shake flasks, and then in
a 2L STR to simulate comparative physical stresses cells will be exposed to in
a 200 and 2000L STR over a comparative length of time. Cells will be harvested
at time-0 from a WCB vial, and at an end point where cells have undergone x2
passages and expansions in shake flasks and x2 passages in a STR reactor.
Cells will then be sequenced by whole genome sequencing (WGS) and analysed
offsite via a service provider.


Method/Procedure


Bioreactor Culture Conditions

ParameterSettings  
pHIf pH probes working and available: PID control loop, 7.5 set point, lower
by base addition and increase by sparging CO2  
  
If pH probe not functional: sparge with constant CO2 at 5% of total volume  
Temperature37degC set point  
Air spargingMinimum rate (mL/min) required for dispersion at 70 RPM (TBD)  
Agitation270 RPM (0.2 m/s)  
  
  
Workflow

DAY -4 (Thursday 23/06/22)

1\. Prepare required growth medium (4L) and store at 4degC

2\. Sub-culture Nuvonis cells from existing manufacturing Seed-train (ST)

  * Seed cells at a density of 400k/mL and expand into x2 E-500 flasks
  * 120M total required in 300mL

3\. Assemble 2L STR, Schott bottles, clean and sterilise components (prepare
x1 extra harvest bottle 2L)

DAY -2 (Friday 24/06/22)

4\. Continue 2L assembly and monitor flasks

RUN-1 DAY 0 (Monday 27/06/22)

5\. MORNING:

  * Inoculate STR with growth medium dosed with 1:10 000 Antifoam C, 1:1000 IGF (50ng/mL) and 1:5000 EGF (10ng/mL)
  * Perform calibration test for sparging rate over increasing RPMs:
    * Set RPM to 70 RPM
    * Set compressed air sparging to 60mL/min
    * Increase air sparging rate until complete mixing is observed, record sparging rate
  * Allow to heat, pH correct and sparge over ~3 hours

6\. AFTERNOON: Passage cells (require minimum of ~1.33M/mL) and inoculate 2L
STR at 200k/mL cell density

  * 400M total in 300mL, inoculated into 1700mL for 2L nominal broth volume
  * sample 5mL and discard. Sample 5mL and perform cell count using ViCell with Nuvonis cell parameters
  * record online pH, dO, and temperature
  * reserve remainder of 5mL sample and prepare for storage; centrifuge at 1500 RPM for 10 min at 4degC (room temperature is acceptable if centrifuge is not temperature controlled). Immediately aliquot supernatant into 1mL aliquots, label, and store samples at -80째C. Avoid freeze/thaw cycles of media samples. 

RUN-1 DAYS 1-4 (Tuesday 28/06/22 -Friday 01/07/22)

7\. Sample and store

  * sample 5mL and discard. Sample 5mL and perform cell count using ViCell with Nuvonis cell parameters
  * record online pH, dO, and temperature
  * reserve remainder of 5mL sample and prepare for storage; centrifuge at 1500 RPM for 10 min at 4degC (room temperature is acceptable if centrifuge is not temperature controlled). Immediately aliquot supernatant into 1mL aliquots, label, and store samples at -80째C. Avoid freeze/thaw cycles of media samples. 

RUN-1 DAY 4 / RUN-2 DAY 0 (Friday 01/07/22)

8\. perform draw and fill with partial harvest:

  * aliquot 1600mL and warm in water bath at 37degC
  * harvest 80% of total volume into harvest Schott bottle (1600mL)
  * add 1600mL newly prepared media
  * increase stirring speed to 190 RPM
  * sample 5mL and discard. Sample 5mL and perform cell count using ViCell with Nuvonis cell parameters
  * record online pH, dO, and temperature
  * reserve remainder of 5mL sample and prepare for storage; centrifuge at 1500 RPM for 10 min at 4degC (room temperature is acceptable if centrifuge is not temperature controlled). Immediately aliquot supernatant into 1mL aliquots, label, and store samples at -80째C. Avoid freeze/thaw cycles of media samples. 

RUN-2 DAYS 1-4 (Saturday 02/07/22 - Tuesday 05/07/22)

9\. Sample and store

  * sample 5mL and discard. Sample 5mL and perform cell count using ViCell with Nuvonis cell parameters
  * record online pH, dO, and temperature
  * reserve remainder of 5mL sample and prepare for storage; centrifuge at 1500 RPM for 10 min at 4degC (room temperature is acceptable if centrifuge is not temperature controlled). Immediately aliquot supernatant into 1mL aliquots, label, and store samples at -80째C. Avoid freeze/thaw cycles of media samples. 

RUN-2 DAY 4 (Tuesday 05/07/22)

 10\. Packdown and harvest

  * harvest entire volume into harvest bottle
  * centrifuge cells at 310xg for 10 minutes. Discard supernatant
  * amalgamate cell pellets into single bottle, rinse/dilute with PBS, cell count and record cell pellet weight
  * pellet cells and maximally aspirate PBS
  * snap freeze pellet on liquid nitrogen and store at -80degC for later DNA extraction and WGS by service provider. 

  


