Aim/Purpose


Background

Using the foundations built up during the "Buffalo Wings" prototype work, we
will trial tissue engineering at larger scales and using suspension adapted
cells (Nuvonis fibroblasts predominantly). This work is part of the Mini-
Tissues workstream for the Second Product, more can be read about this here.
Initial Buffalo Wings experimental plans and lab books can be found here. From
experiment 1 we learnt that tissue formation does not occur at low cell
densities, with the best tissue forming at the highest cell density we had
trialed (15,000,000 cells/mL). We theorise the optimial cell density is much
higher than this value before tissue formation is inhibited. Further, for this
experiment we will be seeding the cells with collagen only since we observed
tissue formation in the absence of Matrigel (Experiment 3: Matrigel Reduction)
(within 1 - 24 hours).

Aim

To understand the optimal cell density for tissue engineering in moulds using
suspension Nuvonis cells in a collagen-only matrix.

Hypothesis

Tissue-engineered tissues have a critical, optimum cell density (at the time
of seeding), above this critical cell density, tissue formation is inhibited.


Methods and Experiment Layout


Brief Method

The method followed here will be very similar to the one used for the Buffalo
Wings prototype large scale harvest. Briefly, this method will use Nuvonis
cells, embedded in a tissue gel matrix consisting of defined ratios of:
Collagen I, 10x DMEM/F12, 0.1M Sodium Hydroxide and Matrigel. This allows the
formation of tissues via the process of tissue gelation, condensation and
self-assembly around 2 attachment points (Figure 1) - See Notion page for
summary of approach. However, for this experiment we will be excluding
Matrigel given we observed tissue formation in the absence of Matrigel
(Experiment 3: Matrigel Reduction).

  

Figure 1. Myoblast tissues self assembled around 2 attachment points of a 3D
printed solid mould (white)

  

Experiment Layout

We will seed 2 plates containing tissue engineering moulds with 12 tissues
each, at 15M cells/mL using 4 different collagen concentrations 2.6, 3, 4 and
5 mg/mL.

Figure 2. Tissue eng mould plate layout for experiment 5.

  




Before Starting

  * Calculate approximate cell requirements for experiment 1
    * = Approx 360 million cells for 2 plates at the above densities
  * Calculate required cell densities and volumes of matrix ingredients for large can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nAKlh6US6Xud95YGlDTkI4LHBWjzlAxnhmTym1P2bUw/edit#gid=1981262089
    * Total volumes for experiment:
      * Collagen I = 40.6ml
      * 10x DMEM/F12 = 5ml
      * 0.1M NaOH = 6.1ml
      * Matrigel = 9ml
  * Autoclave 2x large Nylon scaffolds, 2% agar (for embedding moulds), forceps and mould weights (Jesi - Aluminium rods in PDMS)
  * Ensure matrix reagents are made up fresh at required concentrations

Matrix reagents details for this experiment:

  * Make up matrix reagents:
    * Collagen I to 2.6mg/mL - stock is at 6.17mg/mL - dilution factor 1:2.4
      * need ~ 2 mL total (make 2.5 mL)


