Aim:


To determine the optimal individual and combinatorial concentrations of Ficoll
PM 70 and Ficoll PM 400 to produce deposited ECM sheets through macro
molecular crowding.


Background


Both Ficoll PM 70 and Ficoll PM 400 have been top candidates among the macro
molecular crowders tested at Vow thus far and in literature [1]. We have
employed concentrations recommended by literature for both of these crowders
to varying success, however there still remains room for optimisation of these
concentrations as while some ECM deposition is seen in sheets, a portion of
the ECM remains suspended in the media. Moreover, this was demonstrated in
crowded growth media containing a high amount of serum, and the concentrations
determined in serum may not translate directly in the newfound ACF formulation
we have developed. Thus, a concentration study is required to understand the
ideal concentration for each crowder that deposits all of the ECM generated
into the cell sheet rather than the media. Moreover, a combinatorial approach
to MMC has shown success in literature and hence will be assessed in this
experiment.


Layout
  
  
Figure 1: Layout of a 48 well plate depicting the condition of each cell. Each
cell contains a combination of Ficoll PM 400/Ficoll PM 70 concentrations
(mg/ml).  
  
  


  
  
Figure 2: Table depicting the amounts of concentrated stock and basal media
required to make each dilution for Ficoll 40.


  
  
Figure 3: Table depicting the amounts of concentrated stock and basal media
required to make each dilution for Ficoll 400


  
  
Day

Task

Requirements  
  
0

  * Seed 6 x 48 well plates with 20 million cells per well in ACF adherent media

  * 6 x Corning 48 well Tissue Culture treated plates 

  * ACF adherent media (DMEM/F12 + BSA (18.75 mg/ml) + LAA2P (150ug/ml) + 1X ITS + 1X P/S

  
  
1

  * Make up a 2X stock of 75 mg/ml Ficoll PM 70 in ACF adherent media (will become 1X when combined in 50/50 with F400)

  * Make up a 2X stock of 50 mg/ml Ficoll PM 400 in ACF adherent media (will become 1X when combined in 50/50 with F70)

  * Perform dilutions to achieve each of the dilutions outlined above.

  * Perform media change and aliquot 150uL of Ficoll 70 and 150uL of Ficoll 400 (50:50) as outlined in Figure 1 with the respective concentrations.

  * Ficoll PM 400

  * Ficoll PM 70

  * ACF adherent media (Basal Media)

  * Opentrons Liquid Handling Robot (optional)

  
  
7

  * Fix each well with 4% PFA

  * Quantify each cell sheet and media in each well with Sirius Red to analyse collagen content at 560nm.

  * 4% PFA

  * Sirius Red

  * Spectrostar Nano Plate Reader

  * Data analysis software


Analysis
  
  
Metrics for success:

  * Collagen content deposited between conditions
  * Collagen content deposited vs Collagen content suspended in media (ratio) between conditions
  * Overall collagen produced between conditions

  


References


[1] Zeiger, A., Loe, F., Li, R., Raghunath, M. and Van Vliet, K., 2012.
Macromolecular Crowding Directs Extracellular Matrix Organization and
Mesenchymal Stem Cell Behavior. PLoS ONE, 7(5), p.e37904.








