

Confluence rating spreadsheet and Mia data  
  
Whole scaffold images of scaffolds on day 7 of differentiation were visually
assessed for % confluence by LL, MG, EH, both sides of the scaffold were
scored for confluence:

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JNDmZZ23Icllx5abAiYf7os6O0sNVqULCaxKFyGyS-w/edit?usp=sharing

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recIvEiOHeGf2qTK0/images




JMP generated data  \- based on manual image analysis

Note - only the most confluent side of each scaffold was included in analysis  
  
Bar graphs represent the mean confluence score, error bars denote the standard
deviation between measurements, n=4  

Data without removing outliers



Data with outliers removed



Actual vs predicted plot



Sorted parameter estimates

 \- Pectin coating had a significant negative effect on scaffold confluence
relative to EPL coating

\- ECM components did not have a significant effect on scaffold confluence  
  

  




JMP generated data - based on FIJI analysis of scaffold confluence

Note - only the most confluent side of each scaffold was included in analysis  
  
Bar graphs represent the mean confluence score, error bars denote the standard
deviation between measurements, n=4

  

  

 \- Pectin coating had a significant negative effect on scaffold confluence
relative to EPL coating

\- ECM components did not have a significant effect on scaffold confluence

  

Rsq value for automated method (0.31) was lower than the Rsq value for manual
method of analysis (0.52).

  

An R2 of 1.0 indicates that the data perfectly fit the linear model. Any R2
value less than 1.0 indicates that at least some variability in the data
cannot be accounted for by the model (e.g., an R2 of 0.5 indicates that 50% of
the variability in the outcome data cannot be explained by the model).

  

I.e there is more variability in the automated analysed data set.




Bar graph to compare manual versus automated scaffold confluence assessment
methods

\- The standard deviation of measurements across replicates, as represented by
error bars, were consistently higher for confluence estimated via automated
image analysis (FIJI) comapred to manual assessment (by eye)

\- Between the two, the automated method of analysis seems to give higher
confluence scores to scaffolds scored as having lower confluence by the manual
method and lower confluence scores in scaffolds scored to have higher
confluence by the manual method

\- It is hard to interpret the mean and stdev of the two methods as we do not
have a ground truth data source i.e. we are limited by the capabilities of the
human eye when assessing scaffolds

.  
  
  
  
  




ANOVA for manually scored data:  
https://www.jmp.com/en_au/learning-library/basic-inference-proportions-and-
means.html#m-2123188714465154096576327  
  
See figure 1:  
p <.0001 suggests at least one of these means was significantly different from
the others  
  
See figure 2:

Multiple comparisons, compare means, students T-test. Comparative letter
report.  
Different letters =  conditions which are significantly different based on
scaffold confluence.  

  

i.e.  
Serum pectin has a significant negative effect on scaffold confluence as does
ACF pectin, with no significant difference between the two  
  
Condition 11 resulted in a significantly improved scaffold confluence relative
to conditions 13, 2, 4, 12, 9, 8, 6, 10, Serum EPL, Serum Pectin and ACF
Pectin, but was not significantly different from ACF EPL or conditions
1,3,5,7.  
  
The mean confluence for ACF EPL was 61.67 with a stdev of 32.15 whereas for
condition 11 it was 81.25 with a stdev of 10.3. Based on this it appears that
condition 11 is a more reliable condition for attaining high scaffold
confleunce. However, one replicate was lost for the ACF EPL condition due to
issues with imaging, wherein the n=3 samples remaining had a ranked confluence
of 75, 85 and 25. It is therefore impossible to say from this data if the
score of 25 is an outlier or if confluence level achieved for this condition
is highly varied.  
  
ACF EPL: 75, 85, 25 (one replicate lost) Mean: 61.67 Stdev: 32.12

11: 95, 80, 70, 70 Mean: 81.25 Stdev: 10.3  
  
Similarly, looking closer at conditions 1, 3, 5, 7 scores were as follows:  
  
1: 40, 70, 75, 80 Mean: 66.25 Stdev: 17.9

3: 70, 80, 70, 70 Mean: 72.5 Stdev: 5

5: 60, 70, 70, 60 Mean: 65 Stdev: 5.8

7: 80, 65, 50 (one replicate lost) Mean: 65 Stdev: 15  
  




ANOVA for automated scaffold confluence analysis:  
  

See figure 1:  
p 0.0362 (lower than 0.05) suggests at least one of these means was
significantly different from the others  
  
See figure 2:

Multiple comparisons, compare means, students T-test. Comparative letter
report.  
Different letters =  conditions which are significantly different based on
scaffold confluence.  

  
  

I.e.  
Serum pectin had a significant negative effect on scaffold confluence relative
to Serum EPL but not with ACF pectin or ACF EPL as well as to conditions 5,
14, 1, 11 and 3  
  
ACF EPL was not significantly different to Serum EPL or Serum pectin or ACF
pectin  
  
Condition 5 was not significantly different to ACF EPL or Serum EPL but did
result in significantly higher scaffold confluence compared to ACF pectin,
Serum pectin, 13, 6, 8, 9, 10

Condition 14 was not significantly different to ACF EPL or Serum EPL or
condition 5, 1, 11, 3, 7, 4, 2, 12, 13, 6 but did result in significantly
higher scaffold confluence compared to ACF pectin, Serum pectin, 8, 9 10.  
  
ACF EPL: 72, 51, 14, 21 Mean: 40 Stdev: 26.3

Serum EPL: 25, 61, 18, 68 Mean:43 Stdev: 25.1

5: 50, 46, 75, 73 Mean: 61 Stdev: 15.26

14: 44, 64, 88, 32 Mean: 57 Stdev: 24.7

Serum pectin: 19, 32, 10,21 Mean: 20 Stdev: 8.9

ACF pectin: 23, 29, 14, 34 Mean: 25 Stdev: 8.6  
  
Out of interest, 11 the 'best' condition from the manually scored data was
scored as the following:  
11: 55, 30, 58, 80 Mean: 56 Stdev: 20.7

and only resulted in a significant increase in confluence relative to ACF
pectin, Serum pectin, 8, 9, 10

  

  


