

Culture ID

Harvested Vessel/s (Type)

Harvested Vessel/s ID(s)

Seeded Vessel/s (Type)

Seeded Vessel ID(s)  
  
2CF

6855-DOLLY12-Sheep P11-1of3 (ACF)

6856-DOLLY12-Sheep P11-2of3 (ACF)

96-well plate

6888-DOLLY12-Sheep P14-1of1  
  
2CF

6857-DOLLY12-Sheep P11-3of3 (SERUM)  

24-well plate

6889-DOLLY12-Sheep P14-1of1  
  
96-well plate  
6888-DOLLY12-Sheep P14-1of1  
  
  
  




## Performed by: Adrian Kotevski  




Method/Procedure

Table of volumes:

Flask TypedPBS TrypleMedia for pellet resuspension and countTubes needed  
2CF200 mL100 mL5 mL (1/4 dilution with trypan)4 x 50mL  
  
  




1\.  Turn on water bath and set temperature to 37˚C.

2\. Take the flasks for harvest and observe under the microscope for even cell
distribution and 50% confluency. Take 5 images per flask. Refer to VSOP006_0

3\.  Aliquot required volume of: if seeding 32 scaffolds (16 ACF, 16 serum, 8
CF)

  * dPBS  600 mL
  * TrypLE  300 mL
  * ACF media  10 mL (resuspending 2x2CFs) + 7 mL (96WP seeding)  
  * Serum media  5 mL (resuspending) + 7 mL (96WP seeding) + 13 mL (24WP seeding) 

4\.  Place aliquots in pre-warmed water bath and leave for ~20 minutes or
until warmed.




5\.  Transfer aliquots and flasks required for harvest into the BSC, ensuring
to wipe down containers with 70% EtOH during the transfer.  

6\. Unscrew white cap and remove blue cap from 4CF and place aside (high and
out of way within the BSC) carefully pour all of the media from the flask into
a 500ml waste pot.




7\.  Replace with  100 mL (per flask) of warmed dPBS by carefully pouring
through the white cap opening

8\.  Screw caps back on and equalise each 2CF by placing it on its side

9\.  Once flask has been washed carefully pour the dPBS into a 500 mL waste
container.

10\.  Add/pour  100 mL of pre-warmed TrypLE into each 2CF, equalise (as
explained above).

11\.  Incubate at 37˚C for 10 min. Timestamp:  

  1. Flask 1 (Serum): 14:39 - 14:49
  2. Flask 2 (ACF): 14:41 - 14:51
  3. Flask 3 (ACF): 14:43 - 14:53




12\.  After 5 minutes, remove flasks and observe for 95-100% dissociation of
cells under the microscope. If needed incubate further until maximum
dissociation level is reached.

13\.  Return flasks to the BSC and pour out the TrypLE solution from the
flasks and collect into a sterile 500ml container. Next, distribute the
tryple/cell mix with a serological pipette into 12 x 50 mL centrifuge tubes
(labelled).

14\.  Carefully pour   50 ml of ambient dPBS into each flask, screw on lids,
equalise and wash flask (as explained above), gently mix then remove lids and
aspirate the entire volume by carefully pouring into same 500 mL collection
pot. Then distribute with a serological pipette into 12 x 50 mL centrifuge
tubes( labelled).

15\.  Repeat previous  50ml  PBS wash step




16\.  Centrifuge tubes at 650 x g for 5 minutes. Timestamp: 15:03 - 15:08

17\.  Gently remove centrifuge tubes and aspirate the supernatant from the
tubes. Discard supernatant. Remove remaining supernatant with a 1mL pipette.




18\.  Re-suspend pellets and collect into 2 x 50 mL tube in  5 mL (serum) & 10
mL (ACF) media

19\. Perform 2 x cell counts per harvest from two separate samples of the
suspension using a hemocytometer (1:4 dilution in Trypan blue - i.e. 10ul cell
suspension + 40ul Trypan blue)

20\. If the 2x cell counts are close to each other, use the average of the 2
counts as cells/mL and work from there.

NOTE If the counts aren't close perform a 3rd (and possibly a 4th and 5th
count) until satisfied that there is a good data set to get an average count
from.




Observations/Summary:

Regular seeding event - will stain tomorrow to assess adhesion




Media/Reagents used:

  

NameDetails (reagent ID)Timestamp (in waterbath)  
  
TrypleA4618  
13:58  
  
dPBS (for washing & neutralising)A5107, A5113, A5111  
13:58  
  
Growth Media (ACF)  
  
14:20  
  
Growth Media (Serum)  
A4775  
14:20  
  
p38i (20mM stock)M4928  
14:20  
  
  
  




### Results:

  * Results were;
    * [x]  As Usual (this is a repetitive task)
    * [ ]  Unexpected because...
    * [ ]  Need to be further analysed
    * [ ]  Other (.......)




 Relevant Images/Figures (if applicable):

### https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recJ2AlCp5FWKWOjR/images (6856)
ACF, Thursday May 27

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recE8EF2RP2R6D2xR/images (6855) ACF,
Thursday May 27

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recTBfiFbejDdWenc/images (6857) Serum,
Thursday May 27


