

  
Experimental Plan:

Proliferation Phase:

Day 1 - [TUESDAY June 8th] Seed fibroblasts at ~3k cells per cm2 in DMEM/F12 +
10% FBS + 1x PS. Note that this concentration for seeding is substantially
lower than the typical concentration of 7k cells/cm2 and we should expect that
this will lead to slow growth over the next few days.

  1. 1\. 8 x 100mm plates should be seeded. (4 x 100mm plates to be harvested pre-development phase. 4 x 100mm plates to be harvested post-development phase). 

Day 4 - [Friday June 11th] 50% Feed fibroblasts with DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1x
PS

Monitor the fibroblasts at least every other day during the week. Perform a
50% feed of cells with DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1x PS every 72h until the
fibroblasts are confluent.

  

ECM Development Phase:

Day 0: 100% feed of all plates with fibroblasts. Half receive DMEM/F12 + 10%
FBS + 1x PS + 50ug/mL of vit C. Half receive DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1x PS +
50ug/mL Vit C + 5ng/mL TGFb.

Day 1: After 24 hours, remove media from & weigh 2 x plates with Vit C and 2 x
plates with TGFb/Vit C. Weigh an empty plate and subtract the weight of the
plate to have the weight of the fibroblast sheet.

Sheets may be harvested with tryple & weighed a second time (for production's
information RE harvesting) or may be given to biomaterials for scaffolds work,
depending on the relative needs of either team.

  

Day 3: After 72h, perform a 50% feed on the remaining plates with the
appropriate media (DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1x PS + 50ug/mL of vit C, or D/F + 10%
FBS + 1x PS + 50ug/mL Vit C + 5ng/mL TGFb).

Every 72h perform a 50% feed. Monitor the cells daily for 14 days. Experiment
will be ended after 14 days if the sheets don't lift up on their own. If the
sheets do lift up on their own, the experiment will be ended at that time
point.

End of the experiment: Sheets should be imaged, weighed and recorded within
their 100mm plate. Sheets may harvested with tryple & weighed a second time
(for production's information RE harvesting) or may be given to biomaterials
for scaffolds work, depending on the relative needs of either team.


