Previous Research Relevant to Fibroblast ECM production


For more background information on why we initially began working with TGFb
and Vitamin C to form fibroblast sheets, please see the background section:
https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/Mjc2LjkwMDAwMDAwMDAwMDAzfDEwNjMxNy8yMTMvVHJlZU5vZGUvNjUxNzg5Mzk2fDcwMi45.

We have had success at Vow in using 50ug/mL of Vitamin C with or without
5ng/mL of TGFb to form fibroblast sheets. (See previous experiments in the
section at: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/OTYuMnwxMDYzMTcvNzQvVHJlZU5vZGUvMzI3Mjc1MDU4MXwyNDQuMg==).
In these experiments, treatment of confluent fibroblasts with 50ug/mL of
Vitamin C for 24h was sufficient to induce formation of a fibroblast "sheet"
which could be lifted from the flask using TrypLE. It is not currently clear
if TGFb is absolutely required for this process; we have observed formation of
fibroblast sheets of a similar biomass in the context of Vitamin C alone. This
is despite the well documented role of TGFb in fibroblast production of
collagen and extracellular matrix (ECM).

The Production team at Vow has begun generating fibroblast sheets using
overconfluent fibroblasts treated with Vitamin C and TGFb for 24h. However,
given that TGFb and Vitamin C supposedly increase fibroblast collagen
production, and given that we hypothesise that this increased collagen
production is responsible for the increased biomass, we would like to
determine whether a longer period of "ECM development" leads to harvest of
substantially higher cell biomass.

We propose three main conditions, harvested at two different time points (24h
post-treatment with Vit C/TGFb and 14 days post-treatment with Vit C/TGFb). We
will compare the biomasses to determine whether a 14 day "collagen production"
phase allows for substantially increased biomass. The three conditions will be
as follows:

1\. Control - Fibroblasts alone, no Vit C/TGFb.

2\. 50ug/mL of Vit C alone. This will allow us to confirm whether TGFb is
critical for formation of thick fibroblast sheets, or whether we can avoid its
use.

3\. 50ug/mL of Vit C + 5ng/mL of TGFb.

  

Each condition should have 2 replicates, so we are looking at 12 x T flasks of
fibroblasts total for this experiment. We could use 10 x T flasks if
necessary; this would require us to cut the controls down to an n=1 rather
than an n=2 though. In addition, we could use T25s rather than T75s or T175s
to preserve media or cells.

  

  

  


