Written by:      Shaleen Sharma    Date submitted for review:
Reviewed by:   Date:
Aim:


To investigate the effect of various in-house ECM/tissue promoting media
formulations on textural differences in the Nuvonis noodles prototype.


Hypothesis:


Culturing MMC noodles in in house ECM promoting media formulation will result
in a noodle formation with increased texture and possibly elasticity
(characteristic of ECM rich tissues).


Background


  

Y/N

    Links

Justification  
  
Is this a continuation of a previous experiment/series of work?

Y

Optimising Ficoll PM 70 concentration

Previously, we have found 140 mg/ml of Ficoll PM 70 to be the ideal
concentration of MMC to produce the most collagen in sheet format.  
  
Currently, there is no noticeable product differences between MMC treated and
control conditions in our scalable MMC product formats (noodles, balls). Our
optimised concentration of Ficoll PM 70 has not yet been tested in our
scalable product formats for MMC (noodles, cell balls) and may result in
increased collagen deposition as it observationally has in well plate format.
The underlying assumption here is that increased collagen deposition results
in more favourable textural properties.  
  
Furthermore, in an attempt to increase collagen content in our noodle format,
several in-house media formulations will be trialed in addition to Ficoll PM
70 containing media. This includes TGF-b + Vit C formulations that were used
in cell sheet format previously as well as the current working formulation
used in the Mini-tissues stream.  
  
Is the experiment based on findings from literature research?

Y

Macromolecular crowding

  
  
  
  
***Note: All media formulations include Vitamin C (150ug/ml)***

Variable* (include full names not just abbreviations)

 Description (e.g. what concentrations are being tested)

Justification

 Relevant links (e.g. to literature and/or product pages)  
  
Ficoll PM 70 condition

MMC media (140 mg/ml Ficoll PM70)

To investigate whether the addition of the optimised MMC concentration results
in a difference in texture/taste/colour change.

  
  
  
Control

Basal media (PRF DMEM/F12)

Have a baseline indication of existing texture/taste/colour change.

  
  
  
Ficoll PM 70 + Mini Tissues media (D/F + IGF (1:1000) + EGF (1:5000) + 1:1000
Glutamax) Mini tissues media + MMC mediaCombine the best formulations from
both streams that are producing highly collagenous products.  
  
Mini Tissues media (D/F + IGF (1:1000) + EGF (1:5000) + 1:1000 Glutamax) +
TGF-b (10 ng/ml)  
Mini tissues media + TGF-b (10ng/ml)TGF-b and Vitamin C have shown to increase
ECM production at Vow previously.TBA  
  
*factor that is to be manipulated, controlled for, or measured in an experiment e.g. media additive or seeding density  
  
Why? Including a background section provides justification for why certain
research choices were made and prompts you to ensure that this is an
appropriate research direction i.e. one which will likely assist us in
reaching our goals. This is important to the reader/reviewer as well as to
project leads and ultimately investors, ensuring that our time, money and
energy is being put to good use.


Methods


  
  

Replicate number

Cell type/s

Experiment

duration

Timepoints

Total number of cells needed

Number and type of vessels required**

Controls

Base media

Method/s of measurement

Quantitative or qualitative***  
  
As this process is new, replicate numbers cannot be predicted. The aim will be
for 3 replicates per conditions.

Fibroblast

7 day (min)

Day 7

6 billion cells

4 x E500 shake flasks

  

4 x dialysis tubing

  

DMEM/F12 (no MMC treatment) + Vit C

DMEM/F12 + Vit C

Collagen assay

  

Sensory assessment

Both  
  
*See the following page on statistics, specifically the power calculations section to determine appropriate number of replicates  
*number does not include vessels required for cell expansion prior to testing variables  
**will the results retrieved be quantitative (data that can be
counted/measured using numbers and can be used to calculate significance) or
qualitative (cannot be counted/measured/expressed easily using numbers,
results are more observational and open to interpretation)  
  
Why? The tabulated information above represents the critical information
required to repeat the experiment and interpret the findings. Thus, it is
important that it is documented clearly for reproducibility purposes. Note -
it is preferred that experiments generate quantitative data with enough
replicates to calculate significance, if the experiment only results in
qualitative findings please take time to reassess the experimental plan, can a
quantitative method be used? will qualitative findings be sufficient to decide
whether the outcomes are successful or not? how can you limit bias and error
in recording these findings?  
  


Plate map (or other relevant diagram):



Timeline


Daily breakdown of tasks in table form.

Day

Task  
  
0

  * Make 2L + 30ml of basal media (PRF DMEM/F12 + Vit C)
  * Make 30ml each of each media formulation to be tested
  * Secure dialysis tubing.
  * Make up and sterilise alginate solution.

  
  
1

  * Obtain cells from cell supply, mix with media and alginate and extrude noodles.
  * Set up dialysis tubing in 500ml containers 

  
  
7

  * Harvest and measure collagen content. 
  * Send harvest to Kylie for sensory assessment.

  
  
  


