

Procedure

  




Bag : FRS500218, Lot: G0000484

Filters IN: S6625 (Lot: 2201001403), S6624 (Lot: 2131001703)

Filter OUT: S6621 (lot 2132012403) - Note only 1 OUT filter installed due to
none other available. The autoclave strip was not the usual brown colour.
Photo attached.

  




Base preparation: (performed according to VSOP-090)

1\. 400 g of NaOH pellets were added directly to 10 L of MilliQ water

2\. Mix using a plastic stir bar until majority of the pellets have dissolved.

3\. Prepare the 10L for autoclaving and autoclave at 121'C for 80 minutes
without the external sensor.

4\. Separately autoclave a carboy with the tubing attached (1/8" \- 1/4"
advantaflex for welding).

5\. Once both are autoclaved transfer into a BSC.

6\. Switch the lid of the carboys, such that the lid with the tubings is
attached to the carboy filled with 1M NaOH.

7\. Transfer this carboy to the STR 200L and weld to one of the lines with
1/8" \- 1/4" C-flex tubing.

8\. Configure the base to be a cascade function of the pH.




Preparation of 5L schott bottles for GF/antifoam and cell inoculum: (performed
according to VSOP-114)

1\. Prepared two 5L bottles according to the VSOP above with the 1/4" \- 3/8"
advantaflex tubing, one of which was intended for the cell inoculum.

This was prepared with the blue bioprocess lids normally used for the Biostat
2L with the three inlet valves (one connected to the dip tube, one for the
filter and other capped).

2\. Prepared a separate 5L bottle according to the VSOP above with the 1/8" \-
1/4" advantaflex tubing (unbeknownst at the time was that the filter line was
incorrectly connected to the dip tube)

This was prepared with the red bioprocess lid with the two inlet valves (one
connected to the dip tube and the other for the filter).

3\. These were both autoclaved on a dry cycle for 20 mins at 121'C

4\. Cell inoculum was transferred to one of the 5L bottles prepared in step 1.
This bottle was taken outside, welded to the bag and the cells pumped in using
the small watson marlow pump (the one normally used for harvesting process)

5\. GF/antifoam were prepared in 1L of autoclaved milliQ and stored in the
fridge for later use. This was retrieved and added to the 5L bottle prepared
in step 2. This bottle was taken outside, welded to the bag and connected to
the pump. Began pumping and noticed nothing was happened. Upon closer
inspection the filter line was attached to the dip tube, therefore no solution
could be pumped through the other line.

6\. Tube was sealed and bottle taken inside. At this point the other 5L bottle
from step 1 was finished autoclaving and the GF/antifoam solution was
transferred to this bottle in a BSC. Bottle was taken outside, welded to the
bag and the pumped in using the pump on the control tower.


