Background information on fibroblasts in suspension culture


There is extensive information around adapting fibroblasts to suspension in
the previous background sections, linked here:

1\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTgyLjB8MTA2MzE3LzE0MC0xNDU2L1RyZWVOb2RlLzUwNjQzODMzNnw0NjIuMA==  
  
2\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTE4OS41fDEwNjMxNy85MTUtNTY1My9UcmVlTm9kZS8zMjc4NTU0NDQ5fDMwMTkuNQ==  
  
So far, we have not successfully adapted fibroblasts to suspension culture.

We have made attempts using at least 10 million cells seeded into DMEM/F12 +
20% FBS + 1x PS. In some instances, we have included revita cell or anti-
clumping agent to attempt to encourage a single cell suspension. Anti-clumping
agent is a solution used commonly in pharmaceutical production with suspension
cells (usually CHO cells, Chinese Hamster Ovary cells) to minimise clumping of
cells and encourage single cell suspension. Given CHO cells are a commonly
used immortalised cell line, anti-clumping agent may not act on primary
fibroblasts in the same manner as these immortalised ovary cells. Revita cell
contains a ROCK inhibitor. ROCK inhibition has been shown to prevent apoptosis
and support cell survival during the expansion. Inhibition of ROCK has
successfully been used in adapting embryonic stem cells to single cell
suspension. As with the CHO cells, it is worth noting that because embryonic
stem cells are a different cell line to primary fibroblasts, the mechanism of
ROCK inhibition may not have an identical impact on primary fibroblasts.  
  
The experiment determining whether anti-clumping agent or revita cell allow
for adaptation of fibroblasts to suspension culture is still on going.
However, we would like to kick off an additional experiment aimed at achieving
suspension culture in advance of that experiment completing, as it will take
approximately 30 days to achieve adaption.  




For this next series of experiments, we want to test the impact of p53
inhibitors histone dehydrogenase 1 & 2 (HDAC1, HDAC2). These regulatory
proteins modulate p53 transcriptional activities through regulation of p53-DNA
binding activity (like most histone dehydrogenases) [1, 2]. These
dehydrogenases are over-expressed in many cancer types; perhaps over-
expression will encourage development of an immortalised cell line. In
addition, under-expression of these dehydrogenases is linked to senescence and
cell cycle arrest; given that we are losing large numbers of cells during the
adaption to suspension process, perhaps including HDAC1 & HDAC2 in our
suspension media will encourage ongoing proliferation and growth.

It is also interesting to note that some authors suggest adapting cells to ACF
media prior to adapting cells to suspension [3]. We are currently pursuing an
ACF media formulation for primary fibroblast growth; perhaps this will need to
fall into place before we can achieve fibroblasts in suspension.

We have also ordered the YIGSR and RGD peptides for testing in our suspension
cultures. These peptides should bind fibroblast integrins. RGD is a peptide
motif made up of arginine-glycine-aspartate, and mimics fibronectin binding
almost identically. YIGSR is a different protein motif which mimics laminin
binding almost identically [4]. As an adherent cell type, fibroblasts
typically bind the plastic of a cell culture flask by their integrins.
Integrin binding facilitates important fibroblast biology associated with cell
growth. To allow those signalling cascades to continue to signal and hopefully
improve fibroblast growth in suspension culture, we can incorporate integrin
binding proteins like the YIGSR and RGD peptides into our media. These
peptides will arrive before the histone dehydrogenases, which will take 2-3
weeks to arrive from the US. Thus, this initial experiment will likely be
focused on the YIGSR and RGD peptides.  
  
RGD-conjugated PDMS surfaces promote the adhesion, proliferation, and collagen
production of human skin fibroblasts [5]. Varying concentrations of RGD
peptides also alters fibroblast phenotype and expression of extracellular
matrix genes including collagen. Concentrations between 0.01mM and 1mM were
assessed, with higher RGD concentrations leading to increased expression of
extracellular matrix genes [6]. Something within this order of magnitude is
likely a good place to start for incorporation of RGD into suspension media.

In contrast to varying concentrations of RGD, varying concentrations of YIGSR
did not alter fibroblast migration [7], though fibroblasts did adhere to and
survive well in the presence of YIGSR. A YIGSR concentration of 2.1 pmol/cm2,
grafted on glass, has been successfully used for the adherence of fibroblasts
[8]. Something within this order of magnitude is likely a good place to start
for incorporation of YIGSR into suspension media.

Tharmalingam et al (2008) used Pluronic-F68 (Poloxamer 188) in suspension
culture with CHO cells and found that 0.1-0.2% solutions enhanced cell growth
under agitation conditions and reduced cell adhesion in static cultures [9].
They also noted that Pluronic F-68 may be detrimental to some cell lines and
that the minimum concentration will need to be determined for each cell line,
which we will need to take into consideration. The concentrations that were
effective for them were between 0.1-0.2% (10g/L = 1%).

1\.
https://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/67/7/3145?ijkey=7d8861582c0d32efcf6ece39b053a7aae788565f&keytype2=tf_ipsecsha  
2\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25072962/

3\. https://link.springer.com/protocol/10.1007%2F978-1-4939-7312-5_6

4\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15371257/

5\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16948145/

6\. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/jbm.a.35456?saml_referrer

7\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31302351/

8\.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/000326979090459M?via%3Dihub

9. https://sci-hub.se/10.1007/s12033-008-9045-8


