

# Bioengineered constructs combined with exercise enhance stem cell-mediated
treatment of volumetric muscle loss

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5481841/

Key take-aways: Co-culture of MuSCs with other muscle resident cells (MRCs)
led to sustained viability of MuSCs. Specifically, endothelial cells are the
critical MRC for this phenomenon. MRCs studied in this report included
fibroadipogenic progenitors (FAPs) and macrophages as well as endothelial
cells. The endothelial cells were also capable of engrafting and contributing
to vasculogenesis. Thus, endothelial cells might be a good 3rd cell type to
isolate.

  

# A Muscle Stem Cell Support Group: Coordinated Cellular Responses in Muscle
Regeneration

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6075730/

This is a fantastic review of muscle regeneration & the different cell-type
influencing this process. This image shows expansion of different cell types
during the process of muscle regeneration:

  

  

#  

# Muscle Satellite Cells and Endothelial Cells: Close Neighbors and Privileged
Partners

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1838982/

Key findings: Endothelial cell (EC) cultures specifically enhanced MuSC
growth, through production of IGF-1, HGF, bFGF, PDGF-BB, and VEGF. Individual
myogenic cell differentiation is spatiotemporally associated with new vessel
formation via ECs. Bidirectional signaling between ECs and differentiating
MuSCs is likely at work during muscle regeneration.

  

  

Katie Day-Apr 22, 2021, 1:43 PM AEST

Important notes for working with endothelial cells:  
  
Google drive link for all previous work done on endothelial cell culture &
isolation:  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZF3KyDbb0iYbhCovtVvmDyz3Gi-
Zz490aGZmSx7CZjs/edit

If working with endothelial cells, we can probably use DMEM/F12+20%FBS+1x PS
as our serum-containing media for starters. Additions such as hEGF,
hydrocortisone, VEGF, hFGF-B, R3-IGF-1, Ascorbic Acid, and/or Heparin may be
added to supplement media if needed, but hopefully these can all be found in
the FBS already and 20% should be more than sufficient.

https://www.labome.com/method/Cell-Culture-Media-A-Review.html


