Passage 4 GIBCO - 3X10CS + 1x5CS into 8x10CS


# Procedure - Passage

### Note: Fibroblasts do NOT require Gelatin coated Flasks, and do NOT require
p38i.

1\. Turn on water bath and set temperature to 37'C.

2\. Place new seeding flasks into the 37'C incubator to pre-warm.

3\. Take the flasks for harvest and observe under the microscope at 4x
objective for even cell distribution . Refer to VSOP-006. Take 2-3 images per
flask.

4\. Aliquot required volume of dPBS (37'C), dPBS (ambient temp), TrypLE, and
Growth Media in separate sterile pots. Refer to Table below for required
volume.

``

5\. Place aliquots in pre-warmed water bath and leave for ~20 minutes or until
warmed. Note: Ensure TrypLE is thoroughly warmed.

6\. Transfer aliquots and flasks required for harvest into the BSC.

7\. Discard growth media from each flask.

8\. Wash with warmed dPBS, then discard.

9\. Add TrypLE to each of the flasks. Mix thoroughly to ensure coverage of the
surface area.

10\. Place in the incubator at 37'C. After 8-10 minutes, remove flasks and
observe for 95-100% dissociation of cells. Incubate further until maximum
dissociation level is reached.  
NOTE: The flasks must be removed from the incubator within 18 minutes of
initial incubation of TrypLE containing flasks.

11\. Pour the TrypLE solution from the flask into 250mL centrifuge tubes.

12\. Add ambient temperature dPBS to each flask as a final wash. To
effectively remove remaining cells adhered to the flasks, mix thoroughly and
then pour the dPBS into 250mL centrifuge tubes.

13\. Centrifuge at 650 x g for 5 minutes.````

14\. Gently remove centrifuge tubes from the machine, ensuring not to disturb
the suspended pellets. Aspirate as much supernatant as possible from the
tubes. Discard supernatant.

15. Following cell harvest and centrifugation, re-suspend the cell pellets in each tube. Use the table below to determine the resuspension volume required.

Tube TypeResuspension Volume Required (mL)  
500uL vial0.5  
50mL 1  
250mL5  
  
16\. Once cells have been resuspended in the individual centrifuge tubes,
combine all of the cell containing solution into one vessel carefully
calculating the total volume each time solution is added.

17\. After removing the cell containing solution from all centrifuge tubes,
rinse the tubes with media to collect all reaming cells. After the rinse is
complete, aspirate this solution and add it to the rest of the cell
suspension. *Note: Be careful to calculate the total volume of the cell
suspension each time solution is added, including during this rinse step.

18\. Perform cell count (Refer to VSOP-007) and enter details into Production
Cell Count Calculator: VBLT-001 and Cell Count Widget.

19\. Triturate the obtained cell suspension 10 times using a 5mL serological
pipette to ensure a homogeneous cell suspension is obtained.

20\. Determine the required volume of suspension media (to achieve seeding
density of roughly 6500-8500 cells/cm2)  and dispense into pre-aliquoted
growth media. Use Production Cell Count Calculator: VBLT-001, and record the
values in the seeding widget.

21\. Transfer flasks from the incubator into the BSC.

22\. Transfer required growth media + cells into each flask.

23\. Transfer the flasks into the 37'C incubator. Refer to Appendix 3 for
incubation conditions.

If seeding fromThen...Incubation Conditions (mammalian cells)  
VialIncubate overnight before a 50% change the day after seeding37'C, 5% CO2  
FlaskIncubate for 72 hrs before a 50% change (or passage) is required37'C, 5%
CO2  
  
  

References

Referenced Method: Section 8 under VSOP-005 & VSOP-009

Cell Counting SOP: VSOP-007

Cell Counting Spreadsheet v2:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jQXPGFq-6xJwA8WL-
UyYJmaMj4v29AW1gxPbCe2Jsc8/edit#gid=1536445053




Flasks with commmerical media were incubated in Main Lab in the large Thermo
Incubator.


