

Single Cell Cloning for adherent fibroblasts background information

Single cell cloning (SCC) is the process by which a single cell is isolated
from a "multiclonal" or "heterogenous" population of cells to generate a
clonal population that is genetically identical [1]. Contrary to stable cell
lines which are generated under selective pressure and result in a mixed
population containing various copies of a transfected gene insert, cells
generated via SCC result in a homogenous population [2][3]. This homogenous
population can then be screened for cell clones that display favourable
features such as increased cellular division/growth, adaptation to suspension
culture, enhanced growth in animal component free media or cell
immortalisation which can be conferred to them via genetic mutations. The
latter is crucial in order to produce sustainable cell cultured products of
sufficient scale to feed billions of individuals as well has not having to
continuously rely on biopsies to obtain more cells.  

The general premise of this process involves isolating single cells grown from
a heterogenous population, and is critical to determine that any monoclonal
population generated can be derived from a single cell. One of the common
approaches to isolate single cells is via a specialised type of flow cytometry
dubbed fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS). This method sorts a
heterogenous mixture of cells, one at a time, into sub-populations based on
fluorescent labelling and has the advantage of being an ultrahigh-throughput
technique [4]. Once sorted into the respective sized well plate, each clonal
population will be scanned using a automated microscope imaging system (Zaber
scanning). Each promising clonal population, as indicated by population size
(i.e. confluency) and morphology, will progressively be passaged into larger
sized vessels until an Master Cell Bank can be generated. This procedure (FACS
sorting and SCC) has been previously employed to generate two MuSC monoclonal
populations, DOLLY12_11E7 (Sheep) and DAISY4_16G9 (Cow), from mixed MuSC
populations, DOLLY12 and DAISY4 respectively. However this same process has
yet to be performed on adherent sheep fibroblasts, with this experiment
constituting the first attempt. Nevertheless sheep fibroblast cells have the
advantage of not needing to be seeded onto gelatin coated growth surfaces, do
not differentiate when in close proximity of one another and can be grown to
high confluency (>90%) before requiring a passage, which should result in a
substantially easier SCC process.

  

References:

[1] https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4409/9/6/1482/htm

[2] https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780124200708000143

[3] https://www.thermofisher.com/au/en/home/references/gibco-cell-culture-
basics/transfection-basics/transfection-methods/stable-transfection.html

[4] https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/medicine-and-dentistry/fluorescence-
activated-cell-sorting


