Isolation and Expansion of CD31+ cells from a Frozen Muscle Biopsy


4,000 CD31+ cells were isolated by FACS from a previously digested sheep
muscle biopsy.

Approximately 2 million cells which originally made up ~1g of the DOLLY15
muscle biopsy were stained with an APC-CD31 antibody. These cells had been
isolated from the DOLLY15 muscle biopsy several months ago. Following
isolation, the mixed single cell suspension was frozen at -80 and stored in
liquid nitrogen for approximately 6 months. These cells had been isolated from
muscle biopsies that were stored overnight at four degrees before being
processed the following day. See the linked notion lab notebook for more
details of the initial isolation process: https://www.notion.so/vow/Isolation-
DOLLY14-15-88ca5fcb177b4eaea300a95621a85b0c#31db0127c6074767b7850aaeb0543192.

By FACS, 4,000 CD31+ cells were isolated from this larger cell population.
This is approximately 0.2% of the viable cells in the single cell suspension
from the muscle biopsy.

CD31, also known as platelet endothelial cell adhesion marker 1 (PECAM1), is
considered a standard marker of endothelial cells [1]. Approximately 0.5-1% of
viable cells from a muscle biopsy are expected to be endothelial cells [2].
With ~0.2% of our viable cells being CD31+, this is within the range of
expected numbers for endothelial cells in a muscle biopsy. Perhaps this
particular sheep muscle was low in endothelial cells due to its age, health,
or other biologic condition. In addition, leaving the biopsy for 24h prior to
processing may have led certain cell types to die at a higher prevalence, e.g.
the endothelial cells. Either of these circumstances could have contributed to
a lower than expected yield of CD31+ cells.

Ideally we would have liked to isolate CD31+ cells from a fresh muscle biopsy
but this was not possible given our time frame to achieve this objective. In
addition, we were unable to find raw isolate from DOLLY11, DOLLY12, or DOLLY13
in our liquid nitrogen storage. These other three isolates were processed
immediately following biopsy collection, rather than after 24h at four
degrees. This points towards the importance of having a well organised frozen
cell library, which we are currently taking steps to rectify.

Cells isolated by FACS were expanded in media containing serum, IGF1, FGF,
EGF, and VEGF.

Although the CD31+ cells were slow to begin growing, within a month the cells
appeared to be proliferating well. Cells were grown in DMEM/F12 containing 20%
serum and 1 x PS along with four growth factors spiked in (40ng/mL FGF,
10ng/mL IGF1, 10ng/mL EGF, and 5ng/mL VEGF). These growth factors have been
shown to stimulate endothelial cell growth and are commonly included in
commercially produced endothelial growth media [3]. Unfortunately due to the
very low number of cells, we were not able to consistently measure the cell
mean doubling time. 4k to 244k cells is approximately 6 doublings, which would
yield a mean cell doubling time of 100 hours over 25 days. However, given the
confluence of the cells over time, it appears that this doubling time was
likely lower immediately following FACS sorting and higher after 20 days of
culture. In addition, although we sorted 4,000 viable, CD31+ cells, we may
have had additional cell loss following FACS sorting as the cells adjusted to
culture.

244,000 cells were banked for future staining and expansion to MCB  
244,000 cells were banked in one vial. Ideally these cells would have been
banked into two separate vials; I need to clarify best practices for these
situations to the fibroblast team or any team at Vow working on isolating new
cell types.

In the future, these cells should be thawed and expanded to an MCB. In
addition, a small number of cells should be set aside for staining. We need to
determine whether these cells have retained their CD31+ character to verify
that they are endothelial cells.

A second method to verify endothelial cell identify is by assessing their
formation when confluent. Endothelial cells traditionally take on a
"cobblestone like" morphology (see figure below). However, most images of
endothelial cells found online are from umbilical cords, veins, or arteries. I
have not found good images in the literature of endothelial cells isolated
from muscle, so at this stage it is not clear whether these cells are indeed
endothelial cells. Future experiments should verify endothelial character in
addition to expanding the population of cells.

Traditional Endothelial cells (image from
https://www.mdpi.com/1422-0067/20/18/4411/htm)

Our isolated cells:

  

Proposed Use of CD31+ Cells in the Context of Meat at Vow

CD31+ endothelial cells are capable of spontaneously forming tubular
structures. These tubes form through the process of angiogenesis, which occurs
in response to VEGF stimulation. VEGF is released by fibroblasts, particularly
stressed or dying fibroblasts [4]. These tubes are potentially very useful to
Vow for generation of larger tissues or muscle biomass. We currently have the
capability to form fibroblast sheets (see EPIC 17048 for more details).
Perhaps we could generate thicker sheets if endothelial cells were used to
generate vessel-like structures that would allow for nutrient transfer to
cells within the centre of the tissue that would otherwise senesce due to lack
of nutrients. This would allow us to generate larger biomasses and achieve
goals of producing well over 100g of product per production cycle.  
  
Incorporation of endothelial cells into our final product could also allow for
differences in taste or texture, depending on the innate taste and textural
properties of these cells. In addition/alternatively, the presence of
endothelial cells in healing tissues is known to increase following the
expansion of MuSCs [5]. There may be endothelial-MuSC interactions at play
which assist these expanding MuSCs in the differentiation and maturation
processes, so it will be worth exploring this phenomenon.

  

Limitations of the study

As mentioned above, there are a number of qualifications around the initial
single cell suspension from which these CD31+ cells were isolated. Because the
biopsy was not processed until over 24 hours following collection, some cell
viability may have been lost. In addition, the single cell suspension from the
biopsy was frozen for ~6 months rather than being processed immediately for
CD31+ cell isolation; this also may have impacted our yield of CD31+ cells and
their viability.

  

Overall Conclusion  
  
4,000 CD31+ cells were isolated from a muscle biopsy, expanded to a population
of 240,000, and banked down. These cells are proposed to be endothelial cells
and may be useful for Vow's future efforts to expand into co-culture, to
facilitate increased maturation of MuSCs, and to produce bigger amounts of
biomass through formation of tubular structures which may be able to mediate
media diffusion and transport of nutrients to cells within a biomass.

  

Future Directions

As mentioned above, the next steps for this experiment are to thaw the frozen
vial of isolated cells, expand the population, bank it down into an MCB, and
stain the cells for CD31 to verify their endothelial character. In addition,
if we observe spontaneous generation of tube-like structures in the context of
co-culture of these cell types with fibroblasts (particularly stressed or
dying fibroblasts which will secrete endothelial cell stimulatory factor
VEGF), this will provide good evidence that these cells are indeed endothelial
cells [4]. We do not have immediate plans for this, as it will likely occur in
a future project and in a different quarter.

  

References

1\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2938961/

2\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26401916/

3\. https://www.rndsystems.com/products/endothelial-cell-growth-
media_ccm027?gclid=Cj0KCQjw78yFBhCZARIsAOxgSx3Zeroaqi5k1nF8tYVyXEW4EEv27rxayqZdMpjJpt7i5ieWgpW5acYaAlj-
EALw_wcB

4\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3192859/

5\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6075730/

  


