

Seeding

NOTE - When seeding make up at least 3 samples worth of excess cell sup, so as
not  to run low and run out when seeding final scaffolds (common).  
  
NOTE - Seed scaffolds with a volume which is sufficient to cover and saturate
the sample without liquid run-off. It is suggested that prior to the seed day
that volumes of media are tested on spare scaffolds to ensure the correct
volume is employed. For flat, thin, 96-well sized scaffolds 50-60ul volumes of
cell suspension are used for seeding.  
  
NOTE- After cell seeding wait 30min for cells to settle before adding the
remaining growth media (for 96 wp seeded with 50ul of cell suspension and
extra 210ul of growth media is added 30min after seeding) - the size of the
scaffold will influence how much media can be added to the well, see below.

Cell requirements

 Average total cells in suspension : ACF = 41,022,000  Serum = 18,300,000  

Link to harvest lab book: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NjIxLjR8MTA2MzE3LzQ3OC9UcmVlTm9kZS8xMzA4Njc5NTQxfDE1NzcuMzk5OTk5OTk5OTk5OQ==

NOTE

Obtained a lower than expected cell suspension. Only 12.975mL remaining,
however required 13.178 mL.

Therefore we altered the seeding plan, so scaffolds which were supposed to be
seeded at 2M were actually seeded at 1.7M.  

  

Cell suspension required

Condition ACF   12  well x    0.7 M   cells =    8.4 M cells    : Total cell
suspension required:   5.436    mL

Condition ACF   12   well x     1 M   cells =    12 M cells    : Total cell
suspension required:   7.751      mL

Condition ACF   12   well x    1.7M M   cells =    20.4 M cells    : : Total
cell suspension required:  13.1783      mL

Condition serum   12   well x     1 M   cells =     12 M cells  

  

Media requirements (pre-warmed)

Re-suspension of cell pellet:

(Note: typically between 50 - 60 uL of growth media for pellet re-suspension)

Total media required (condition    ACF 0.7M   ):    12   well x    1   plate x
0.05  uL growth media =        0.6  mL  
  
Total media required (condition     ACF 1M  ):   12    well x     1   plate x
0.05 uL growth media =       0.6   mL  
  
Total media required (condition    ACF 1.7M   ):    12   well x     1   plate
x    0.05  mL growth media =      0.6    mL  
  
Total media required (condition     Serum 1M  ):   12    well x    1    plate
x    0.05  mL growth media =       0.6   mL

Media top up : 8mL ACF, 3mL Serum  

(Note: typically between 210 - 230 uL of growth media for top up, however it
can be more or less depending on the size of the scaffold)

Total media required (condition    ACF 0.7   ):   12    well x    1   plate x
220 uL growth media = 2.6 mL  
  
Total media required (condition     ACF 1M   ):   12    well x     1   plate x
220 uL growth media = 2.6 mL  
  
Total media required (condition    ACF 1.7M    ):    12   well x     1   plate
x   220 uL growth media = 2.6 mL

Total media required (condition     Serum 1M   ):   12    well x    1    plate
x   220 uL growth media =  2.6 mL




Scaffolds were seeded according the plate maps below, with the exception that
the scaffolds which were supposed to be seeded with 2M cells/scaffold were
actually seeded at 1.7M cells/scaffold. This was due to a lower than expected
cell count.  

  




  

  1. Transfer the above volume of cell suspension into a 15 mL centrifuge tube
  2. Centrifuge at 650 x g for 5 minutes :    12:40     
  3. Aspirate supernatant 
  4. Resuspend cell pellet in the corresponding amounts of media. 
  5. Seed scaffold with 50 uL of cell suspension and allow to incubate in the BSC for 30 minutes     13:02    
  6. Top with 230 uL of media and transfer into incubator      13:35      




### Results:

  * Results were;
    * [ ]  As Usual (this is a repetitive task)
    * [x]  Unexpected because...expected more cells from the ACF flask. Therefore we seeded at 1.7M for some of the scaffolds, instead of 2M.  
    * [ ]  Need to be further analysed
    * [ ]  Other (.......)


