

Images of the scaffolds taken on the Zaber were scored based on % confluence
via both manual (scored by eye by Marie, Lily and Ella) and using the
automated FIJI analysis tool (developed in-house). The scores were then
compared side by side. D7 scaffolds with the highest variance in scores
between manual and automated were re-visited and assessed, as seen below.






A2 - Block 1 - Manual score 70, Automated score 29, condition 3, side 2, code
78083




E3 - Block 2 - Manual score: 20 Automated score: 58, Condition 6, Side 2, Mia
code 78140

AFTER LOOKING AT THE IMAGE I WOULD SAY THIS IS AN OUTLIER DUE TO OVEREXPOSURE
- LIKELY WHY AUTOMATED SCORED IT HIGH




A5 - Block3 - Manual score: 55 Automated score: 28 , Condition 9, Side 1, Mia
code 78008




A6 - Block3 - Manual score: 95 Automated score: 55 , Condition 11, Side 1, Mia
code 78006




B6 - Block3 - Manual score: 70  Automated score: 30 , Condition 11, Side 2,
Mia code 78096

This is a visibly darker image than the others (not sure why) and may account
for the difference in scoring.




H6 - Block3 - Manual score: 20  Automated score: 43 , Condition 12, Side 2,
Mia code 78138

WOULD COUNT THIS AS AN OUTLIER - SCAFFOLD FOLDED UP HARD TO ANALYSE




A7 - Block3 - Manual score: 85  Automated score: 43 , Condition 13, Side 1,
Mia code 78009

  




F9 - Block4 - Manual score: 30 Automated score: 61 , Condition SERUM EPL, Side
1, Mia code 78059




G10 - Block4 - Manual score: 85 Automated score: 51 , Condition ACF EPLC, Side
1, Mia code78071




  

B3 - Block4 - Manual score: 70  Automated score: 46 , Condition 5, Side 1, Mia
code 78018




B4 - Block4 - Manual score:65 Automated score:36, Condition 7, Side 2, Mia
code 78093




C6 - Block3- Manual score:80 Automated score:59, Condition11, Side 2, Mia code
78106




High difference between scores

  
  
  
  
  
WellMAConditionDifference  
A27029341  
E32058638  
A55528927  
A695551140  
B670301140  
H620431223  
A785431342  
F93061serum EPL31  
G108551ACF EPL34  
B37046524  
B46536729  
C680591121  
  
Looked at the data and pulled out scores which had the greatest difference in
confluence (over 20%) see table above.

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HgcBmipgCLS5a7p5wDdJh1qMmvR318vx47tlW50bneA/edit?usp=sharing

Then looked at these images again to verify if there were any obvious issues
which may have caused the scoring difference:

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recIvEiOHeGf2qTK0/images

Found that for samples in wells E3 and H6 that the scoring was likely
distorted due to issues with the sample. For E3 the sample image was over
exposed leading to bright areas that likely caused the automated scoring to
over-score. Whereas, the sample in well H6 was folded up and therefore
difficult to score accurately. These data points should be taken out of the
analysis.  
  
However for the rest of the samples, by eye it still appears that the manual
scoring is a better representation. A multitude of factors could be at play
here including over exposure, under exposure, dark scaffold regions, out of
focus regions.  
  
Took time to go through these images with Stanley on FIJI to work out these
issues. We will attempt a cell count macro on our samples and see if this
brings our mean confluence scores closer. Wherein, we think the issue maybe
due to the cells being at different depths on the scaffold surface, so cells
which are deeper and therefore the stainer nuclei appear smaller are not being
counted as whole cells.

  

Samples with highest difference between manual and automated scores (MIA
codes):

78083

78008

78006

78096

78009

78059

78071

78018

78093

78106

  


