

Figure 1: Cells per microcarrier of DOLLY12-15D11 clone cultures grown in a
series of shake flasks (SF). Cultures derived from a) planar derived WCB2 and
b) microcarrier derived WCB2. WCB2 = working cell bank 2.

  

 Figure 2: Planar and microcarrier derived working cell bank 2 (WCB2) cultures
expanded on microcarriers in shake flasks over 28 days. a) Total cell numbers
for the two WCB2 cell cultures indicated poor growth rates and inconsistent
harvest efficiencies, resulting in poor expansion of the cell banks. Note:
cells were removed from the planar derived culture at day 16 and day 22 for
immunofluorescence assays, contributing to the drop in total cell numbers at
these points in this graph. b) Number of cell doublings between passages and
cumulative for both planar and microcarrier derived cell cultures combined,
showing less than three doublings were achieved over 28 days. c) Post harvest
micrographs of florescent nuclei on micorcarriers for culture 7086 from the
planar derived WB2 at day 8 of the experiment. d) Post harvest micrographs of
florescent nuclei on micorcarriers for culture 7135 from the planar derived
WB2 at day 16 of the experiment. e) Harvest efficiency (%) of the three
microcarrier shake flask passages for both planar and microcarrier derived
cultures. The harvest (%) was calculated by comparing the number of cells
counted using a hemocytometer after harvest with the number of cells counted
using Vow's MIA analysis micorcarrier cell count tool taken before beginning
the harvest. e) Micrograph from culture 7278 demonstrating the cell morphology
seen in both the planar and microcarrier derived cell cultures after culturing
in T75 flasks with proliferation media from day 23 to 28 of the experiment.
The sparsely spread cells with splayed morphology indicate senescent cell
behaviour and the many dead cells indicate poor cell survival.




