

Batch 13 Overview

Batch Goals: Perform experiments to test a number of conditions that could
increase final yield results. Conditions tested Include: (1) Different seeding
densities, (2) Extended P4 Incubation time, (3) Extended treatment (TGFb +
VitC) time. 3 x 5CS in each group, n = 1.

Experiment Outline:

Batch Weight:

Condition7,500 cells/cm215,000 cells/cm245,000 cells/cm2  
(1) Different seeding densities1.2787g1.6084g1.6201g  
(2) Extended passage time1.6892g1.8653g1.4957g  
(3) Extended treatment time1.4965g1.342g1.3356g  
  
  

Condition (1) observations (Different seed densities with 4 days proliferation
and 2 days TGF-b/VitC treatment):

7,50015,00045,000  
@48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Long noodle like formations, still some visibly stuck to the
flask, visibly less aggregates than other 2 seeding densities  
  
  
  
Single cells: Lots of single cells present after tryple treatment, this made
the solution very cloudy and resulted in sizable pellets after spinning  
@48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Noodle like formations but thicker and shorter than 7,500
cells/cm2. Visibly more aggregates than 7,500 but not 45,000. Still a small
amount of aggregates stuck to the flask  
  
  
  
Single cells: Some single cells present after tryple treatment, but the
solution was visibly less cloudy than 45,000. Some sizable pellet present
after spinning but not in every tube.  
@48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Small bead like formations, some stuck together like a string and
some individual balls.Visibly more aggregates than 7,500 but not 15,000. No
aggregates visibly stuck to the flask.  
  
Single cells: Almost no single cells present after tryple treatment but some
visible smaller, very thin aggregates. The solution was clear and almost all
tubes did not contain a visible pellet after spinning.  
  
Overall: Aggregate shape/texture varied a lot between conditions, as did the
concentration of single cells present after treatment with 7,500 having the
highest concentration of single cells. The amount of aggregates present looked
visibly greater in the 15,000 and 45,000 conditions compared to 7,500.  
  
  
  

Condition (2) observations (Extended incubation time of 10 days proliferation
and 2 days TGF-b/VitC treatment):

7,500

15,00045,000  
@ 24hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick short noodles, larger than condition 1 aggregates after a 48
hr treatment. Some sheets of fibroblasts still adhered to the surface but in
the process of coming off.  
@ 24hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick long noodles, larger than those seeded at 7500. They are a
little more curled up onto themselves (as if in the process of forming a
ball). The media looks quite clear and very little cells appear to be adhered
onto the surface. Still some sheet formation adhered though, and looks like
its coming off the surface.  
  
  
Note: Some aggregate formation had occured before treatment with TGFb and
VitC.  
  
@ 24hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Big uneven balls, some very large and some very small (like
couscous).  
  
@ 48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick ball like aggregates. Some of these were connected by
thinner noodle strands. Also some noodle like formations and aggregates had a
wispy appearance due to some of the thin 'cell sheet' hanging off the
aggregates. Almost no visible aggregates stuck to the flask  

  

Single cells: After tryple the solution was quite clear, some very small wispy
aggregates floating around but no obvious sign of single cells. After spinning
the tubes only a very small pellet was present aside from the aggregates.@
48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick ball like aggregates. Some of these were connected by
thinner noodle strands. Almost no visible aggregates stuck to the flask  
  
  
Single cells: After tryple the solution was quite clear, some very small wispy
aggregates floating around but no obvious sign of single cells. After spinning
the tubes only a very small pellet was present aside from the aggregates.  
@ 48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick ball like aggregates. These balls varied a lot in size, some
were very small and some very large. No visible aggregates stuck to the flask  
  
  
Single cells: After tryple the solution was a little bit cloudy, indicating
the presence of single cells. By eye this was more cloudy than the 7,500 and
15,000 conditions. However after spinning the tubes the pellet (not including
aggregates) was not visibly much larger than the other two conditions.  
Overall: After 24 hrs of treatment the aggregate shapes and textures varied
distinctly between seeding densities. But by eye all conditions displayed very
similar aggregate textures/shapes and amount after 48hrs of treatment. 45,000
appeared to have the highest amount of single cells present. Furthermore, the
aggregates appeared larger than those from condition 1 and were harder to
remove from the flask in the 1st decant of the original media as they got
caught near the neck of the Cell stack.  
  
  

Condition (3) observations (Extended treatment time with 10 days proliferation
and 4 days TGF-b/VitC treatment):

7,50015,00045,000  
@ 24hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick short noodles, larger than condition 1 aggregates after a 48
hr treatment. Some sheets of fibroblasts still adhered to the surface but in
the process of coming off.  
  
  
@ 24hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick long noodles, larger than those seeded at 7500. They are a
little more curled up onto themselves (as if in the process of forming a
ball). The media looks quite clear and very little cells appear to be adhered
onto the surface. Still some sheet formation adhered though, and looks like
its coming off the surface.  
  
Note: Some aggregate formation had occured before treatment with TGFb and
VitC.  
  
@ 24hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Big uneven balls, some very large and some very small (like
couscous).  
  
  
@ 48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick ball like aggregates. Some of these were connected by
thinner noodle strands. Also some noodle like formations and aggregates had a
wispy appearance due to some of the thin 'cell sheet' hanging off the
aggregates. Almost no visible aggregates stuck to the flask  
@ 48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick ball like aggregates. Some of these were connected by
thinner noodle strands. Almost no visible aggregates stuck to the flask  
@ 48hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Thick ball like aggregates. These balls varied a lot in size, some
were very small and some very large. No visible aggregates stuck to the flask  
  
@ 96hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Visibly quite similar to 48hrs but slightly thicker/tighter balls.
Very similar in appearance to 15,000.  
  
Single Cells: Media looked clear in the flask and after tyrple treatment. The
cell pellet was also very loose due to being made up of only aggregates
(aggregates do not tend to compact well after spinning and remain loose at the
bottom of the tube)  
  
@ 96hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Visibly quite similar to 48hrs but slightly thicker/tighter balls.
Very similar in appearance to 7,500 but looked to be the thickest aggregates
of all the conditions.  
Single Cells: Media looked quite clear in the flask and slightly cloudy after
tryple. Some single cells appeared to be present in the cell pellet.  
  
@ 96hrs after TGFb+VitC treatment  
  
Aggregates: Visibly quite similar to 48hrs with both small and large ball like
aggregates. Aggregates are smaller than those in both 7,500 and 15,000 and
looked slightly less in amount.  
  
Single Cells: Media looked slightly cloudy in the flask and very cloudy after
tryple treatment. cell pellet was more compact because of these single cells.  
(hypothesis: the cloudiness is actually debris from dead cells not floating
single cells)  
Overall:After 24 hrs of treatment the aggregate shapes and textures varied
distinctly between seeding densities. But by eye all conditions displayed very
similar aggregate textures/shapes and amount after 48hrs of treatment.
Following 96hrs of treatment no further obvious changes were present other
than a slight increase in thickness of the aggregate 'balls'. The aggregates
were very similar across conditions (like Conditions 2). The largest amount of
single cells appeared to be present in 45,000 followed by 15,000, and then
7,500 which appeared to have none. Furthermore, the aggregates appeared larger
than those from conditions 1 and 2 and 7,500 and 15,00 were very difficult to
remove from the flask in the 1st decant of the original media, and after
tryple treatment as they got caught near the neck of the Cell stack. 45,000
aggregates were slightly smaller and therefore did not get stuck in the
flasks.  
  
  
  

Experimental Conclusions:

Seeding Density: The ideal seeding density appears to be between
7,500cells/cm2 and 15,000cells/cm2. Although more cells are initially present
in the 45,000cells/cm2 condition, this did not translate to a higher cell
yield.  

Extended incubation time: This has a positive effect on both the 7,500 and
15,000 conditions by increasing the final yield, but not the 45,000 condition.

Extended treatment time: Extended treatment time does not increase the final
cell yield in any conditions.

Overall: For future batches the seeding density used in P4 should be between
7,500 - 15,000cells/cm2 (ideally 15,000) and then P4 incubation time should be
extended to 10 Days.  

Achievements

New parameters were identified that can be used to increase the yield of
future batches.

Deviations

N/A

Batch Corrective Action Records

N/A


