

## Completed by: Chris




Introduction:

In the previous quarter (Q2 2021), several methods to mechanically stimulate
muscle were identified by the team (predominantly Tom). These methods are
captured here and were summarized as follows:

"The literature below reveals that mechanical stimulation can be used to
improve myogenesis and maturation. However, the stimulus must be judiciously
applied. Continuous cyclic stretching has been shown in some cases to inhibit
both the differentiation of myogenic stem cells and the maturation of
myotubes. It appears that waiting for myotubes to reach a certain level of
maturity, and allowing myotubes long periods of rest between periods of
stimulation, can greatly improve the maturation of myotubes. Mechanical
stimulation can increase myotube diameter by 12 - 100%, or 25 - 300% increase
in cross sectional area (Powell et al., 2002 and Somers et al., 2019)."

However, given the complexity and difficulty scaling these custom solutions,
we are planning to initially focus on passive mechanical stimulation using the
following tools:

1\. conical shaped well inserts "a la Mosa Meat"

2\. Pin well inserts (previously assessed by Ella)

  

  

Additional literature:

https://elifesciences.org/articles/44530#s4

https://www.cell.com/cell-reports/pdfExtended/S2211-1247(18)30452-2

  

  




# Conical inserts

Source: Mosa Meats Patent Summary

During differentiation, muscle fibers link to form muscle tissue. These links
create tension that pulls the muscle fibers together. The insight behind this
new culture vessel design is that this tension can move the cell mass to a
part of the culture vessel where it is easier to harvest the cells. The muscle
fibers are formed at the base of a partial cone (the cone is referred to here
as the inner wall, colored in green). Once the cells differentiate, the
tension between the fibers moves the cells up the cone into a harvesting area
(colored in purple), just like the rubber band moved to a thinner part of your
finger.

The patent application doesn't specify particular dimensions, but it gives
some possible ranges. The length of the center pole can be between 20 and
1,000 millimeters, the diameter of the pole can be between 2 and 10
millimeters, the length of the inner harvesting area can be around 800
microns, the troughs can be vertically spaced 1 to 5 millimeters apart, and
the troughs themselves can contain between 40 and 1,000 microliters of liquid.
Assuming the inner pole is 1,000 millimeters long and the troughs are 10
millimeters tall spaced 5 millimeters apart, up to 66 troughs could be
contained on a single inner pole.

  

Experimental Plan (overview only):

The experimental plan would entail designing a range of different conical well
inserts in Fusion360, 3D printing in an autoclavable materials and testing
various  angles as well as gel matrices and seeding densities. Myotube
formation and protein expression after x days will be assessed by ELISA and
imaging.




# Pin Well Inserts

To grow replacement tendons they rely on a common principle for forming 3D
microtissues in vitro. In which_, m_icrotissues, with or without the addition
of ECM, are generated by allowing a suspension of cells to aggregate before
the cells can spontaneously undergo compaction, a process where cells adhere
to one another and/or to their surrounding ECM, and contract, thereby
increasing the density of the microtissue (Eyckmans & Chen, 2017).This is very
similar in concept to the JC presentation I gave on Bioartificial muscles
(BAMs) grown on inserts, which employed BSC differentiation based on anchor
point attachment in a fibrin hydrogel (Kaplan et al., 2019).For the
preparation of tendon microtissues they seed tenocytes in a collagen
suspension between two stainless pins or sutures and the cells then self-
assemble between the pins forming a band/tendon-like structure rich in
collagen. Interestingly, tendon like structures can be made in the same way
using fibroblasts (cells we already have in house), and this has been shown in
experiments from as early as 1982 (Stopak & Harris, 1982).With two pins,
compaction of the gels results in alignment of the ECM and cells along the
axis of the mechanical stress between pins, creating the formation of a band.
However, with four pins or more, compaction can result in planar structures,
mimicking flat tissues such as skin (Legant et al., 2009). Using this method,
Legant et al have been able to control tissue shape by changing the spacing
and angle between the pillars.The preparation of tendons in this way, using
pins and a cell collagen suspension is a pretty simple process. Much simpler
than the BAM formation, which required the sequential action of multiple
animal products including fibrin, fibrinogen, thrombin as well as a
fibrinolytic inhibitor aminocaproic acid (ACA) (Kaplan et al., 2019).

Bioartificial Muscle (BAM) formation: BSCs (3.5 × 106 cells/well) were
combined with 20 mM CaCl2 in media. For groups with heme protein, media
contained Hb or Mb (3 mg/mL). The cell mix was added to wells containing
thrombin (from bovine plasma). Finally, bovine plasma fibrinogen stock diluted
in H2O was added (final conc of 3 mg/mL) and mixed (total 800 µL/well).To
prevent rapid hydrogel degradation the fibrinolytic inhibitor ACA (1 mg/mL)
was added. -ACA and cell-free controls were used. Plates were incubated for 30
min at 37 °C, to initiate hydrogel polymerization. Then, media with and w/o
heme proteins added. After 1 day media was replaced with differentiation media
(with and w/o heme proteins). After 9 days, BAMs were removed and weighed.
Tissue thickness and width were measured with digital calipers.NOTE - Calcium
binding/thrombin cleavage activates a coagulation complex pFX111 (in plasma)
which covalently crosslinks fibrin > stable clots.NOTE -ACA is a antidote to
fibrinolytic agents.  
Prevents fibrin lysis > clots.

  

Experimental Plan (overview only):

The experimental plan would entail redesigning the pin well inserts for a
better fit and scale to 48w in Fusion360, 3D printing in an autoclavable
materials and testing various gel matrices and seeding densities. Myotube
formation and protein expression after x days will be assessed by ELISA and
imaging.

  


