Aim: To implement and automate ELISA for scaffolds and adherent cultures
Hypothesis: A portion of the ELISA pipeline is capable of being automated using our liquid handling robots
Technical Gap: We currently perform the ELISA workflow through manual pipetting with limited reproducibility
Method/Procedure


Background:

Currently, the process for measuring maturation in myogenic cells at Vow is
primarily focused on fluorescent antibody staining and subsequent image
analysis. While this approach has proved useful for adherent cultures, it
remains difficult to measure maturation on scaffolds at Vow due their 3D
structure and complex overlapping structures that often fail to be captured
accurately even with our Zaber imaging platform. Considering the maturation
process occurs primarily on scaffolds in cultured meat applications, it is
imperative to quantify maturation content on scaffolds at Vow. One possible
approach that has come to light is the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
(ELISA) that is commonly used to detect and quantify proteins and antibodies
in biological samples.

However, as evidenced by previous implementations of this assay at Vow - it
proves to be a labour intensive process largely due to washes to reduce non-
specific binding. This is amplified when the Janus Green workflow is also
implemented and multiple plates and conditions are factored in. An attractive
alternative to this, is automation of intensive workflows such as ELISA using
liquid handling robots. Considering that the capabilities of liquid handling
robots extend as far as most manual pipetting workflows - automating the ELISA
pipeline appears to be feasible.  
  
At Vow, this would be possible using our Opentron II liquid handling robots.
Automation of ELISA while is attractive from a time-saving perspective also
allows for greater reproducibility between experiments. Currently, the entire
ELISA and Janus Green process (post-primary staining) takes 4 hours if done
manually. Moreover, consistency within the pipeline itself is highly important
as absorbance readings are highly sensitive to small changes between
replicates. Automation reduces sources of error such as operator-driven
mistakes as well as variation between pipetting technique from user to user.

Hence, the ELISA and Janus Green protocol form the ideal candidates to be
automated using Vow's in-house liquid handling robots.




The entire process of ELISA is particularly long and repetitive at times.
However, automating the entire process start to finish in one run results in
only one plate able to be performed per run. This is due to the starting deck
state being completely filled with reagents and labware for the entire
process. Hence, to increase throughput - it is more worthwhile segmenting each
phase of the process in different runs so that more samples can be analysed in
parallel.  
  
However, prior to testing these segments, it is imperative to assess whether
the crucial pipetting techniques involved in ELISA are able to be translated
to the OT2 robots. Hence, some preliminary testing is required to assess the
feasibility of automating ELISA. These tests are outlined below:

Preliminary testing:

  * Assessing what dead volumes are required
  * Assessing what pause times are required for desired incubation times
  * Testing and optimizing PBS washes
  * Testing and optimizing supernatant plate transfer
  * Testing and optimizing pipette mixing

Test runs (segmented to increase throughput):

  * Addition of HRP-conjugated secondary antibody and incubation
  * Addition of TMB substrate and peroxidase reaction
  * Addition of Janus Green stain.


Preliminary testing:


Preliminary tests:

Supernatant plate transfer

Pipette mixing  
  
Protocol:

  * Transfer 150uL/well to original plate.
  * Incubate for 5 mins.
  * Transfer 100uL from original plate to new plate
  * Transfer 100uL from new plate to waste

Monitor for:

  * Accuracy of supernatant transfer
  * Whether complete transfer of 100uL to waste is successful (dead volumes)
  * Whether dispensing occurs above each well to ensure no contamination.
  * Whether 5 minute incubation time is accurate

Protocol:

  * Add 75uL of red dye to plate.
  * Add 75ul of water to same plate.
  * Pipette mix 100uL with five repetitions.

Monitor for:

  * Successful and complete mixing of dye with water


Water run:
  
  
Addition of "secondary antibody"

TMB Reaction

Janus Green Protocol  
  
Protocol:

  * Transfer 100uL/well of red dye to plate 
  * Aspirate red dye from plate
  * Add 200uL water to first half of plate, then add 200uL to second half.
  * Remove water.
  * Repeat wash twice more.
  * Add red dye ("secondary") to specific wells of plate using P1000

Monitor for:

  * Gravimetric analysis of plates (before and after mass) to see if volume transfer is accurate
  * Total run time for removal of primary, addition of secondary and 3 x PBS washes 
  * Success of "blowout" technique
  * Success of using P1000 multi-dispensing technique to add secondary antibody

  

Protocol:

  * Add 75uL of red dye ("TMB substrate")
  * Incubate for 15 minutes
  * Quench with 75uL of copper sulfate ("HCl")
  * Transfer 100uL of supernatant to new plate

Monitor for:

  * Gravimetric analysis of plates (before and after mass) to see if volume transfer is accurate
  * Total run time
  * Pipette mixing technique success when transferring supernatant to new plate.

  

Protocol:

  * Remove 50uL of remaining supernatant (red dye)
  * Wash 3x with 200uL of water
  * Add 100uL of red dye ("Janus Green") 
  * Incubate for 5 minutes
  * Wash 5 times with water ("PBS")
  * Add 100uL  copper sulfate ("HCl")
  * Incubate for 10 minutes.
  * Transfer 50uL of supernatant to new plate.

Monitor for:

  * Gravimetric analysis of plates (before and after mass) to see if volume transfer is accurate
  * Total run time
  * Pipette mixing technique success when transferring supernatant to new plate.
  * PBS washing success.

  


Cell run:
  
  
The optimised workflow from the water runs will be implemented for the cell
run. However, one important consideration that will be kept in mind is
aspiration heights due to the presence of a layer of cells. This will be
monitored during the water runs and adjusted for the cell run if needed.

The cell run will test out the OT2 protocol on cells and assess its success.
However, this is also an opportunity to form a calibration/baseline for DOLLY
cells for future ELISA data (e.g. DSD experiments) to be compared against.

The following can be investigated in this cell run:

  * The effect of increased cell densities on OD values.
  * The normal OD values to be expected from DOLLY12 cells.
  * The success of the ELISA run compared to manual ELISA workflow.

  
  
  
Figure 1: Plate map for each plate (out of two) for the cell run on the ELISA
OT2 protocol.  
  
Storyboard:

Two 96 well plates will be seeded in this run. The first will undergo the
ELISA protocol on the OT2 and the other will undergo ELISA via manual methods
as has been done before. The results of each plate will be compared.

DayTask  
0Thaw and seed cells into 2 x 96 well plates (as per plate map)  
1Switch to E6  
2100% feed  
3100% feed  
4100% feed  
5100% feed  
6100% feed  
7100% feed  
8100% feed  
9100% feed  
10100% feed  
11Fix cells with 4% PFA (manually)  
12Primary stain (manual)  
13Perform ELISA protocol (automated for one plate, manual for one plate)  
14Results writeup and data analysis


