

## Completed by: Ella Hodder  


Aim/Purpose


 Aim:

To assess the cell adhesion and differentiation of DOLLY12 MuSCs on porous soy
scaffolds provided by DaNaGreen.  
  


Hypothesis


# Hypothesis:

DOLLY12 MuSC cells will adhere well and differentiate on porous soy scaffolds
provided by DaNaGreen after 14 days in ACF E6 differentiation media.

#  


Technical Gap


# Technical Gap:

In previous experiments we have seen good cellular adhesion (DOLLY12 MuSCs) to
our in-house TVP scaffolds made with textured soy protein. However, we have
not yet tested DaNaGreen scaffolds made with soy.


Method/Procedure


Experiment in clubhouse:  
https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/story/21538/epic-21508-screening-of-
danagreen-scaffolds-experiment-skeleton  
  

Experiment timeline:

D-3 Sterilise scaffolds (40 needed for experiment, sterilise 45 in case of
loss/droppage)

Using tweezers spread out 45 scaffolds across multiple glass petri dishes with
lids and autoclave at 121'C for 20min (normal run) Leave dishes to cool in the
autoclave or BSC then parafilm edges of dishes until usage (within 1 week)

D-3 Autoclave well inserts (enough inserts and trays for 2x 24 well plates)  

D-3 Plate scaffolds ready for seeding (in untreated 24-well plates, no inserts
yet)

Parafilm plates and leave in BSC until seeding

D-3 Make up ACF media for 100% and 50% feeds of cell factories  

D-2 100% feed cell factories with ACF media (performed Friday before Monday
harvest

D-1 50% feed cell factories with ACF media  

D0 Harvest cells for scaffold seeding  

D0 Seed scaffolds  

Pre-wet/wash all scaffold samples with seeding media 2x for 10min then remove
any excess media from the samples until seeding

Seed the scaffolds with 3 seeding densities 0.5, 0.8 and 1.5M cells/scaffold
(see plate maps below)

Seed either under either static or shaking conditions (based on company
recommendations)

Static seeding (24 well plate):

  * Add an appropriate number of cells in suspension per scaffold in media, use a volume of cell suspension which saturates the scaffold but does flood the sample (i.e. cause media run off, which results in cells adhering to the plastic)
  *  Leave the saturated samples in the BSC for 30 min
  * Then fill the wells with pre-warmed media (add media gently and not directly at the scaffold)  

  * Place the plate in the incubator (37'C, 5% CO2 on a static shelf)  
  
  
Shaking seeding (24 well plate):  
1\. Add an appropriate number of cells in suspension per scaffold in media,
use a volume of cell suspension which fills the well (not so full that shaking
will cause media to spill over the walls of the well)  
2\. Place the plate in on an orbital shaker or a rocker in an incubator (37'C,
5% CO2, 15 RPM) for 24h to ensure all cells have a chance to encounter the
scaffold and attach to it.  
  
Static plate:

  

Shaking plate:

  

D1 24h after seeding stop shaking and stain (live with hoechst or CMFDA, fixed
with DAPI) and image D1 samples  (note if cannot get good images on zaber take
images on the axio)

D1 Calculate seeding efficiency (tryplise cells from base of well and perform
cell count)  
See the following link for a guide on how to perform this method.  

D1 Move scaffolds to new plate (all samples for imaging to go into 24-well
plates without inserts for imaging)

D1 Zaber image scaffolds (CMFDA or Hoechst for live imaging, fix and DAPI for
destructive sampling)  
  
See the following link for a guide on how to use the main lab zaber for
imaging scaffolds.  

If for some reason you cannot achieve good images on the zaber try on the
axio, we need to know if cells have adhered! If you have issues with the Zaber
try to check with Lily (our in house pro at scaffold imaging).  

D1 100% Media feed, move all samples into 24-well plates with inserts, add
pre-warmed proliferation media and place in the incubator (all static now)  

D1 Make up E6 with p/s for diff feeds (starting next day)

Diff D0 100% E6 feed (remove all proliferation media and replace with E6)

Diff D1 100% E6 feed  

Diff D2 100% E6 feed  

Diff D3 100% E6 feed  

Diff D4 100% E6 feed  

Diff D5 100% E6 feed  

Diff D6 100% E6 feed

Diff D7 (live with hoechst or CMFDA, fixed with DAPI) and image D7 samples on
the zaber (note if cannot get good images on zaber take images on the axio)

See the following link for a guide on how to use the zaber for imaging.  
  
Diff D7 100% E6 feed  

Diff D8 100% E6 feed  

Diff D9 100% E6 feed

Diff D10 100% E6 feed  

Diff D11 100% E6 feed

Diff D12 100% E6 feed  

Diff D13 100% E6 feed

Diff D14 ANALYSE FOR DIFFERENTIATION (ELISA? WESTERN BLOT? PROTEIN ASSAY? Fix
and Primary stain with MyoG and MF20?)  

Secondary Diff analysis step (for antibody staining and ELISA Secondary stain)

Zaber image scaffolds or Measure via Plate Reader (D14 Diff) or run
electrophoresis -  this depends on the analysis method used.

Analysis  

Report write up

Internally review report  

Externally review report



  

  




Full-factorial experiment planned in JMP:

  

  

3-level continuous factor (seeding density - 0.5M, 0.8M, 1.5M cells/scaffold)  

2-level categorical factor (static vs shaking seeding - static 0rpm and
shaking 15rpm)

0.5M 0rpm  (n=4)

0.5M 15rpm (n=4)

0.8M 0rpm (n=4)

0.8M 15rpm (n=4)

1.5M 0rpm (n=4)

1.5M 15rpm (n=4)

Total of 24 cell-laden ACF samples

0.5M x 8 = 4M

0.8M x 8 = 6.4M

1.5M x 8 = 2.25M

= 12.65M ACF cells required  (14.5M adjusted for error)

Positive control

Serum media, samples seeded with 0.8M cells at either 0rpm or 10rpm,  n=4
samples per condition = 8 samples

0.8M x 8 = 6.4M Serum cells required (8M adjusted for error)  
  
Cell free control

n=8 samples.  
  
Cell demand for 1 timepoint (i.e. live imaging of cells on d1 and d7):

14.5 M ACF cells

8 M Serum cells

NOTE

If we are going to have 2 timepoints with destructive sampling (fixing) at
both points (rather than live hoechst or CMFDA staining then would need to
multiply cell demands by 2, i.e. 29M ACF cells and 16M serum cells).

If we are going to have 3 timepoints (d1 prolif, d7 diff, d14 diff) then we
would multiply by 3 and need 44M ACF cells and 24M serum cells.  
  
  
  
  

  


