

Proliferation of ﬁbroblasts and endothelial cells is enhanced by treatment
withPhyllocaulis boraceiensis mucus

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/cpr.12003

"Treatment withP. boraceiensis mucus produced pronounced changes in ﬁbroblast
cell number and morphology, and in quantities of well-ordered collagen
deposition. These results support the premise that Phyllocaulis boraceiensis
mucus demonstrates pro-liferative properties in cells involved in the heal-ing
process."

  

Factor Xa stimulates fibroblast procollagen production, proliferation, and
calcium signaling via PAR1 activation

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15707570/

"We have previously shown that factor Xa upregulates fibroblast proliferation
via production of autocrine PDGF. In this study, we further examined the
effects of factor Xa on fibroblast function and aimed to identify its
signaling receptor. We showed that factor Xa stimulates procollagen promoter
activity and protein production by human and mouse fibroblasts. This effect
was independent of PDGF and thrombin production, but dependent on factor Xa
proteolytic activity."

  

Fibroblasts in fibrosis: novel roles and mediators

https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphar.2014.00123/full

"Fibroblasts are responsive to cytokines such as TGFβ1, IL-1β, interleukin-6
(IL-6), IL-13, IL-33 (Feghali and Wright, 1997; Scotton and Chambers, 2007;
Savinko et al., 2012), as well as prostaglandins (Keerthisingam et al., 2001;
Stratton et al., 2002; Maher et al., 2010) and leukotrienes (Mensing and
Czarnetzki, 1984; Chibana et al., 2003; Eap et al., 2012). Fibroblasts are
stimulated chemically by inflammatory agents to differentiate into
myofibroblasts that have a greatly up-regulated rate of matrix production
(discussed in more detail below)."

  

Increased fibroblast proliferation and activity after applying intense pulsed
light 800-1200 nm

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25547460/

"Intense pulsed light emitting near infrared applied in vitro cultured cells
increases fibroblasts proliferation and activity"

  

Factors required for bone marrow stromal fibroblast colony formation in vitro

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1046/j.1365-2141.1997.902904.x

"These data indicate that stimulation of the initial proliferation of an MSF
precursor cell is complex, and requires participation of at least four growth
factors: PDGF, bFGF, TGF-β and EGF." Note: I think we've already tried all of
these but figured I'd chuck this one in anyway because these factors
continually showed up in my research

  

Heparin induces fibroblast proliferation, cell-matrix interaction and
epidermal growth inhibition

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1600-0625.1996.tb00100.x

In monolayer culture, heparin stimulated the fibroblast growth with an optimal
response at 0.01 mg/ml. The volume of treated fibroblasts was smaller than
that of untreated controls. In the collagen lattices, heparin stimulated the
fibroblast growth with an optimal respone at 0.1 mg/ml. The volume of treated
fibroblasts was greater than that of untreated controls, the opposite to the
result observed in monolayer culture.


