

Electrical stimulation of cells in vitro runs the risk of introducing chemical
byproducts and pH changes to the media. To prevent this from occurring, most
stimulation set ups use salt bridges or balanced, biphasic stimulation
waveforms, however this setup is more complicated to implement than a simple
metallic electrode stimulating with direct current. A basic well-plate setup
is required to be developed for this experiment. For simplicity, electrical
stimulation using DC current with no pulse train will be investigated while
developing the more complex stimulation parameters.  

Some papers have shown successful improvement of differentiation or results
which suggest improved maturation using simple DC voltage set ups with Pt
electrodes (Mobini et al., 2016) or biphasic pulse train set ups with
stainless steel electrodes (Donnelly et al., 2010). This series of tests looks
at the effects of a simple set up using cheap materials and minimal hardware.
A cheap and simple electrode set up may be the easiest to scale but poses the
most risk of causing damage to the cells through media pH changes or other
biochemical reactions.


Test 1 - Stainless Steel Electrodes 20 V/cm


## Method

1.6 mm diameter stainless steel electrodes spaced 15mm apart in a 12 WP
culture dish well were tested in 2 mL of tap water with 30 V DC current,
equating to 20 V/cm. This is much higher than we would expect to use to
stimulate cells and it was expected to see indications of hydrolysis such as
gas formation.




## Results

Using 30 V output, 5 mA was able to be pushed through the circuit. Using Ohms
law of V = IR, we can estimate the impedance of the load is 6kOhm (Figure 1).

Bubbles were clearly visible at the electrode-electrolyte interface,
indicating electrolysis of the water with the formation of hydrogen gas and
implying a change in pH (Figure 2).

Figure 1: Stimulating stainless steel electrodes with 20V/cm DC current

 Figure 2: Hydrogen gas formation at the electrode-electrolyte interface.




Test 2 - Voltage Divider Stainless Steel Electrodes 2, 1 and 0.5 V/cm in Growth Media


## Method

DC current with voltage outputs of 2, 1 and 0.5 V/cm was applied to 1.6 mm dia
stainless steel electrodes in wells with 2 mL growth media using a 30 V DC
power supply and a 10k Ohm potentiometer voltage divider for a minimum of 1
hour.




## Results

0.5 V/cm showed no indication of electrolysis over 1 hour of stimulation, with
no gas bubble formation or pH indicator colour change within the well. 1 V/cm
and 2 V/cm showed indications of electrolysis at the anode, with gas bubble
formation occurring at the anode and the colour of the media changing to a
deep red colour around the same electrode.

Figure 1: Electrical stimulation of growth media using 1.6 dia stainless steel
electrodes in 3 wells of a 12WP culture dish. The wells are connected to a
single DC power supply, with the voltage varied per well using a 10k Ohm
potentiometer voltage divider circuit. The multimeter shows 0.75 V across two
electrodes of a well, indicating 0.5 V/cm is being applied to the growth media
in that well.

 Figure 2: Applying varying voltages of DC current to growth media using
stainless steel electrodes. Left: 0.5 V/cm, showing no indication of
electrolysis. Middle: 1 V/cm, showing gas bubbles forming at the anode. Right:
2 V/cm, showing a large number of gas bubbles forming at the anode.

Figure 3: The underside of the three wells being stimulated showing the
discolouration and cloudy appearance of the media stimulated with 2 V/cm (far
right well).

  

Figure 4: Left: Electrodes from the 2 V/cm stimulation test showing pitted
marks and blackening on the anode, and showing matter accumulation on the
cathode. Right: The electrodes for the 2 V/cm 1 V/cm showed some indication of
dissolution.




## Discussion

2 V/cm showed a large amount of electrolysis at the anode, indicating the
voltage is too high for a DC current set up with stainless steel electrodes.
Large amounts of gas formation was present at the anode and the media turned a
deep red colour around the same electrode. The colour change is caused by the
phonolphthalein pH indicator, with the deep red colour occurring as the the
media becomes more basic. These observations are consistent with hydrogen gas
formation occurring at the anode. 1 V/cm also showed similar indications of
electrolysis, though to a lesser degree. 0.5 V/cm indicated it may be an
appropriate voltage for this electrode set up, showing no gas bubble formation
at the anode or pH indicator colour change within the well.


Test 3 - Overnight DC Voltage Tests with Stainless Steel Electrodes for 1, 0.5 and 0.25 V/cm


## Method

A complete 12WP EStim setup was configured to stimulate with four conditions
in triplicate: 0, 0.25, 0.5 and 1 V/cm (Figure 1). This was done using a DC
power supply outputting 1.5 V and potentiometers to adjust the voltage for
each condition, ultimately delivering 0, 0.375, 0.75 and 1.5 V respectively,
due to the 1.5 cm spacing between the electrodes. The voltage was read across
one well for each column to confirm the appropriate voltage was being
delivered for each condition. Stimulation was left running overnight.

Figure 1: DC Voltage EStim condition configuration.

Figure 2: The DC power supply delivering 1.5 V, with 3 potentiometers changing
the single output to 3 different outputs of 1.5, 0.75 and 0.375 V.  

Figure 3: The wiring setup to connect the 3 wells for each condition in
parallel.  

Figure 4: The EStim culture plate setup inside the incubator during
stimulation.  

  




## Results

0.25 V/cm showed no indication of electrolysis with stimulation overnight. No
gas bubble formation or pH indicator colour change was visible within the
well. 0.5 V/cm showed indications of electrolysis at the anode, with gas
bubble formation occurring visible the anode and the slight colour difference
of the media to indicate pH change. 1 V/cm showed drastic changes to the media
and the electrode, with a thick, black substance present in the well,
particularly around the anode (Figure 5). Electrode inspection after cleaning
the electrode plate revealed some indications of dissolution to the electrodes
delivering 0.5 V/cm and clear indications of severe dissolution to the
electrodes delivering 1 V/cm (Figure 6).

  

Figure 5: Electrical stimulation overnight of a 12WP culture dish with growth
media, using (from left to right) 0.25, 0.5, 1 and 0 V/cm.

Figure 6: Electrode inspection after cleaning the electrode plate revealed
some indications of dissolution to the electrodes delivering 0.5 V/cm and
clear indications of severe dissolution to the electrodes delivering 1 V/cm.




## Discussion

This study indicated that a safe voltage using a simple DC power supply with
stainless steel 1.6 mm diameter wire L-shaped electrodes is less than 0.5
V/cm, with 0.25 V/cm showing no indication of pH changes or electrode
dissolution after one night of stimulation. This voltage range is in the range
of recorded voltages from some studies, such as 70 mV/cm (Serena et al.,
2008). However, this is substantially lower than other recorded voltage ranges
used in many other studies, such as 2 V/cm (Ko et al., 2018), 4 V/cm (van der
Schaft et al., 2013) and 5 V/cm (Shahin-SHamsabadi et a., 2020). However, all
of these previous studies either used biphasic charge balanced waveforms or a
salt bridge to prevent unwanted biochemical reactions from occurring. In a
similar method to the current experiment, one study used a constant DC power
supply without the use of a salt bridge or charge balanced waveform to
stimulate cells immersed in culture media. Using platinum L-shaped electrodes,
1 V/cm was the maximum voltage which could be used without observing
substantial electrode dissolution or gas formation and pH excursions (Mobini
et al., 2018). This is higher than the 0.25 V/cm maximum voltage observed in
the current experiment. This difference may be due to the electrode material
used, with the current experiment using stainless steel electrodes instead of
platinum. Stainless steel L-shaped wire electrodes have also been used in
previous literature without observing negative effects to the cells or
surrounding media, however a charged balanced biphasic waveform was used to
minimise harmful effects (Donnelly et al., 2010).


References


Donnelly, K., Khodabukus, A., Philp, A., Deldicque, L., Dennis, R.G. and Baar,
K., 2010. A novel bioreactor for stimulating skeletal muscle in vitro. Tissue
Engineering Part C: Methods, 16(4), pp.711-718.

Ko, U.H., Park, S., Bang, H., Kim, M., Shin, H. and Shin, J.H., 2018.
Promotion of myogenic maturation by timely application of electric field along
the topographical alignment. Tissue Engineering Part A, 24(9-10), pp.752-760.

Mobini, S., Leppik, L. and Barker, J.H., 2016. Direct current electrical
stimulation chamber for treating cells in vitro. Biotechniques, 60(2),
pp.95-98.

Naumann, K. and Pette, D., 1994. Effects of chronic stimulation with different
impulse patterns on the expression of myosin isoforms in rat myotube cultures.
Differentiation, 55(3), pp.203-211.

Serena, E., Flaibani, M., Carnio, S., Boldrin, L., Vitiello, L., De Coppi, P.
and Elvassore, N., 2008. Electrophysiologic stimulation improves myogenic
potential of muscle precursor cells grown in a 3D collagen scaffold.
Neurological research, 30(2), pp.207-214.

Shahin-Shamsabadi, A. and Selvaganapathy, P.R., 2020. Tissue-in-a-Tube: three-
dimensional in vitro tissue constructs with integrated multimodal
environmental stimulation. Materials Today Bio, 7, p.100070.

van der Schaft, D.W., van Spreeuwel, A.C., Boonen, K.J., Langelaan, M.L.,
Bouten, C.V. and Baaijens, F.P., 2013. Engineering skeletal muscle tissues
from murine myoblast progenitor cells and application of electrical
stimulation. Journal of visualized experiments: JoVE, (73).


