Aim: To measure maturation in DOLLY12 cells using Bradford and Lowry assays
Hypothesis: Both Bradford and Lowry assays will measure total protein content as a measure of maturation
Background:


Currently at Vow, we do not have a robust way to measure to measure MuSC
maturation on our scaffolds. Previously, antibody capture methods to detect
myogenin and myosin heavy chain (II) such as immunofluorescence and ELISA have
been tried and tested with minimal success. In both methods, the antibody is
largely retained by the scaffold giving rise to non-specific binding. The
current working theory is that porous structural network of the scaffold
provides cavities and crevices for the antibody to be retained in despite
repeated washing steps.  
  
The Bradford and Lowry protein quantification assays are commonly used to
measure total protein content. While these methods circumvent the issue of
antibody retention - they bring added complications due to the need of having
to remove cells off scaffolds, lyse and purify protein. Lysing and purifying
protein while is straightforward, having to remove cells of scaffolds may turn
out to be a complicated endeavour. Moreover, if removing cells of scaffolds is
succesful, antibody detection methods might as well be used to quantify
maturation markers (Myogenin, MHC II) instead of having to undergo the process
of lysing and purification for Bradford/Lowry.

An alternative strategy is to employ the rigorous freeze thaw lysis protocol
as well as expose cell laden scaffolds to RIPA lysis buffer. This is to ensure
all cells on scaffolds lyse and release intracellular protein into the buffer.
The supernatant can then be measured using Bradford/Lowry reagents. While one
could argue that antibody detection methods could be used in the lysate,
however due to the repeated washing steps and more sophisticated nature of
these methods it is preferable to use Bradford/Lowry in this instance.
Bradford/Lowry assays provide the advantage of direct measurement in contrast
to indirect antibody based methods. Moreover, our zein scaffolds prove to be
the ideal scaffold to use as our MuSCs are most adherent on zein. The
assumption here is that other scaffolds will be able to be tested from any
successful protocol developed in this experiment.  
  
This experiment will implement the freeze/thaw process as well as the
Bradford/Lowry assays for the first time at Vow in an attempt to quantify
total protein content from our mature muscle cells.


Plan:


Brief overview

MuSCs will be grown up in our cell expansion project and seeded onto zein
scaffolds (0.8M or 1.2M cells per scaffold) nd then transferred into a 24 well
plate format (with inserts) for differentiation cells are transferred into
24wp 24hrs after seeding ie during the next feed with 100% GM. Once in E6,
cells will be matured for a minimum of 10 days. Cells will then be lysed using
a freeze-thaw lysis protocol, centrifuged and then the supernatant will be
analysed with Bradford reagent. Cell-free controls will be used to determine
how much protein is present in the scaffold itself (if any) and then will be
used to normalise signal from cell-seeded scaffolds. Scaffold-free controls
will be used to determine if scaffolds affect degree of cell lysis/protein
detected. Finally, a ramped seeding from low to high will be employed across
the replicates as a form of "positive control" as you should expect protein
content to increase with higher cell numbers.

Total cell requirements: 10M

Scaffold work:

  * Prepare 12 zein scaffolds in a 96 well plate
  * Seed cells on zein at either 0.8M or 1.2M cells per scaffold.
  * After 24 hours, perform feed by transferring zein samples from 96 wp to 24wp with cup and trays containing growth media (D/F + 20% FBS +1xP/S + p38i (10uM))     
  * Feed cells daily with E6 media using cups and trays inserts.

Preparing BSA standard curve:

  * Make up stock of 2 mg/ml BSA solution
  * Perform serial dilutions to make up 2000, 1500, 1000, 750, 500, 250, 125, 25 ug/ml solutions of BSA. Place on ice.

Freeze-thaw lysis method:

  * Transfer scaffolds to microcentrifuge tubes
  * -Add 1mL dPBS to each tube immediately
  * -Freeze quickly in liquid nitrogen and leave for 3 mins
  * -Thaw immediately in water bath for 3 minutes. Vortex to mix well.
  * -Repeat process three more times
  * -Spin tubes in microcentrifuge for 10 mins on maximum speed.
  * -Collect 100uL of supernatant per sample and place in marked microcentrifuge tubes on ice.

Sample dilution:

  * Add 250uL of Bradford reagent to three wells, and to all the corresponding wells for standards.
  * Add 5uL of each standards to the respective wells and observe colour change.
  * Perform 1:2, 1:5 and 1:10 dilutions of the first sample in microfuge tubes.
  * Transfer 5uL of each dilution to each of the three sample wells containing Bradford reagent.
  * Observe colour change. Select dilution for which colour lies within the colour range from the standards.
  * Dilute remaining samples accordingly to which dilution you have chosen
  * Pipette 5uL of each diluted sample into 250uL of Bradford Reagent
  * Aliquot dPBS aliquots in surrounding wells as blanks
  * Centrifuge plate at 650g for 1 min.
  * Read plate reader at 595nm

Calculations/Analysis:

  * Prepare graph of standards (mg/ml on x axis, Abs on y axis)
  * Calculate protein concentration using C1V1 = C2V2 (do not factor in amount of Bradford reagent added)

  


  
  
Figure 1: Plate map for experiment.  
  
  




Storyboard:

Day

Task  
  
< 0

  * Prepare 12 zein samples in a 96 well plate format

  * Grow up sufficient cells in cell expansion.

  
  
0

  * Seed cells onto zein samples

  * Transfer samples into a 24 well plate format.(24hr after seeding)

  
  
1 - 14

  * Feed cells with E6

  
  
15

  * Lyse cells with freeze thaw method
  * Prepare BSA standards
  * Add Bradford reagent
  * Read on plate reader at 595nm

  
  
> 15

  * Perform data analysis


