

## Performed by:




Please include plate map or description of seeding locations




Culture ID

  

Vessel  
Vessel ID  
  
  
  
  
  
  




Media/Reagents used:

NameDetailsVolume used (mL)  
Growth/Proliferation Media  
  
  
p38i  
  
  
ACF  
  


  
  
Seeding

NOTE - When seeding make up at least 3 samples worth of excess cell sup, so as
not  to run low and run out when seeding final scaffolds (common).  
  
NOTE - Seed scaffolds with a volume which is sufficient to cover and saturate
the sample without liquid run-off. It is suggested that prior to the seed day
that volumes of media are tested on spare scaffolds to ensure the correct
volume is employed. For flat, thin, 96-well sized scaffolds 50-60ul volumes of
cell suspension are used for seeding.  
  
NOTE- After cell seeding wait 30min for cells to settle before adding the
remaining growth media (for 96 wp seeded with 50ul of cell suspension and
extra 210ul of growth media is added 30min after seeding) - the size of the
scaffold will influence how much media can be added to the well, see below.

Cell requirements

 Average total cells in suspension :

Link to harvest lab book:

  

Cell suspension required

Condition      well x     M   cells =     M cells    : Total cell suspension
required:       uL

Condition      well x     M   cells =     M cells    : Total cell suspension
required:        uL

Condition      well x     M   cells =     M cells    : : Total cell suspension
required:        uL

Condition       well x     M   cells =     M cells    : Total cell suspension
required:       uL

  

Media requirements (pre-warmed)

Re-suspension of cell pellet:

(Note: typically between 50 - 60 uL of growth media for pellet re-suspension)

Total media required (condition        ):       well x        plate x   0.05
mL growth media =          mL  
  
Total media required (condition        ):       well x        plate x     0.05
mL growth media =          mL  
  
Total media required (condition        ):       well x        plate x    0.05
mL growth media =          mL  
  
Total media required (condition        ):       well x        plate x    0.05
mL growth media =          mL

Media top up :

(Note: typically between 210 - 230 uL of growth media for top up, however it
can be more or less depending on the size of the scaffold)

Total media required (condition        ):       well x        plate x      mL
growth media =          mL  
  
Total media required (condition        ):       well x        plate x      mL
growth media =          mL  
  
Total media required (condition        ):       well x        plate x      mL
growth media =          mL  
  
Total media required (condition        ):       well x        plate x      mL
growth media =          mL




  

  1. Transfer the above volume of cell suspension into a 15 mL centrifuge tube
  2. Centrifuge at 650 x g for 5 minutes :     :     
  3. Aspirate supernatant 
  4. Resuspend cell pellet in the corresponding amounts of media. 
  5. Seed scaffold with 50 uL of cell suspension and allow to incubate in the BSC for 30 minutes     :     
  6. Top with 230 uL of media and transfer into incubator      :    




Observations:

  1.   


