

## Completed by: AK


Aim/Purpose


To achieve proliferating suspension-adapted fibroblast cells using growth
media (DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S) supplemented with methylcellulose.


Hypothesis


That the addition of methylcellulose to our standard culture medium (DMEM/F12
+ 10% FBS + 1X P/S) will enable DOLLY12 fibroblast cells in proliferate and
survive in suspension culture.


Technical Gap


Currently, the primary technical challenge is the inability for fibroblast
cells to proliferate in suspension culture for an extended period (> 14 days),
without a substantial loss in cell viability or cell numbers. In order to
accomplish our objective of generating at least 1 fibroblast cell line adapted
to suspension (according to our metrics), it's necessary to continuously
evaluate different media supplementations. Therefore to identify a promising
avenue that enable us to grow cells in suspension we will be assessing one new
compound; methylcellulose.


Method/Procedure


Experimental Plan:

1. Test preparation of methylcellulose (MC) stock solution 

*See notes below on how to prepare MC stock solution

2. Collect 3x vials of DOLLY12 fibroblasts - 1M in each vial for a total of 3M

*These cells will be directly seeded into 6-well plates at 600,000 cells, 3 mL total per condition (200,000 cell/mL)

Conditions to seed (see plate map below):

  1. DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1X P/S (Serum Control)
  2. DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S + Anticlumping agent 1:100 + 0.1% Poloxamer 188 + 0.1% MC (w/v)
  3. DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S + Anticlumping agent 1:100 + 0.1% Poloxamer 188 \+ 0.3% MC (w/v)
  4. DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S + Anticlumping agent 1:100 + 0.1% Poloxamer 188 \+ 0.45% MC (w/v)
  5. DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S + Anticlumping agent 1:100 + 0.1% Poloxamer 188 \+ 0.6% MC (w/v)
  6. DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S + Anticlumping agent 1:100 + 0.1% Poloxamer 188 \+ 1% MC (w/v)

  

*GM - Growth Media (DMEM/F12 + 2% FBS + 1X P/S + Anticlumping agent 1:100 + 0.1% Poloxamer 188), MC - Methylcellulose 

3. Thaw the DOLLY12 fibroblast into each condition as per the map plate at 200,000 cells/mL. Each well will contain 3 mL of growth media plus the intended amount of MC dissolved into the media (from 0.1% - 1%). Set on a plate shaker at ___RPM

4. Perform a 100% feed 24 hours following thaw

5. Perform a 100% feed every 3 days, filtering the cell through a 70 µm filter, and perform a cell count to assess cell viability and total numbers

6. Track viability and cell counts over a 30 day period, noting down trends and/or observations

  

Preparation of methylcellulose stock solution:

Since the in-house MC is non sterile it will need to be filtered prior to use
in any cell culture experiments. MC can be dissolved using cold water, however
preparing a solution of MC with cold water is difficult because as the powder
comes into contact with water, a gel layer forms around it, dramatically
slowing the diffusion of water into the powder, hence, the inside remains dry.
A more appropriate way is to first mix the powder with hot water, so that the
MC particles are well dispersed (consequently have a higher surface area), in
the water and cool down this dispersion while stirring, should ultimately lead
to more rapid dissolution of the MC particles.

  1. Heat up ___ mL of ultrapure MilliQ water to 80°C . Add ____ g MC powder and agitate until particles are evenly dispersed - with vigorous shaking. A white precipitate should form on surface of the liquid.  
  

  2. Immerse the vessel containing the MC into room temperature tap water for 5 minutes shaking and swirling the vessel intermittently until the solution becomes clear and contains no visible solids.  
  

  3. Pass through a 0.22 µm to sterilise the solution. Prepared solution may be aliquoted and stored at 4°C for up to 12 months. MC serves as a non-cytotoxic, inert, suspending agent to enhance cell-cell adhesion and discourage the formation of an adherent cell monolayer. 




Solubility and gelation of Methylcellulose (MC):

MC is readily soluble in cold water up to approximately 55°C, whilst when it
is dissolved in an aqueous solution it exhibits thermal gelation at elevated
temperatures. A paper investigating the generation of mesenchymal stem cell
sheets found that aqueous MC solutions at varying concentrations (6-15% w/v)
could be prepared in heated water with the addition of PBS. Following
equilibration at 4°C overnight, necessary to obtain homogenous MC solutions,
the prepared solutions were autoclaved for 30 min at 121°C for sterility
control. Even at concentrations as high as 6% (w/v), concentrations well above
what project pool party (PPP) is planning to use in MC cultures, the gelation
temperature was between 37-41°C in all the PBS solution groups (see figure
below). The authors suggest that the salt in the PBS solution had a greater
affinity for water than the polymer (MC). This results in the removal of water
of hydration from the polymer thus dehydrating or "salting out" the polymeric
molecules. This can further increase the hydrophobic interaction among MC
molecules and lead to a decrease in their gelation temperature. However PBS
isn't used as a supplement in growth media for cell culture, with its primary
application being a wash reagent to remove residual serum. As a result, the MC
will need to be prepared in ultrapure MilliQ water which means there are two
possible ways in PPP can prepare a MC stock solution:

1\. Prep a concentrated stock 10% (w/v), according to the the standard
procedure, i.e. heat up MC powder in solution to 80°C then cool rapidly in
room temperature water to dissolve the powder. Immediately sterile filter the
solution through a 0.22 um filter (if at all possible) for cell culture
experiments and store at 4°C until required.

2\. If it is not possible to sterile filter the 10% (w/v) MC solution it can
potentially be autoclaved. Prepare the MC as described in option 1, however
once dissolved store the solution at 4°C overnight to equilibrate. Sterilise
the solution by autoclaving it at 121°C for 30 minutes. However, it is unclear
how the authors manage to retain the solution in a liquid phase as the high
temperature should theoretically have resulted in the MC solution to gelate.
The solution could potentially have been re-cooled to 4°C to enable to MC
solution to return to a liquid suspension.

  

  

Reference: Chen, C.H., Chang, Y., Wang, C.C., Huang, C.H., Huang, C.C., Yeh,
Y.C., Hwang, S.M. and Sung, H.W., 2007. Construction and characterization of
fragmented mesenchymal-stem-cell sheets for intramuscular injection.
Biomaterials, 28(31), pp.4643-4651.


