

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/22603/epic22603-suspension-
adaptation-8-methylcellulose?cf_workflow=500000005&ct_workflow=all

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recmhJ1ZugccsojVL?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE: Generating at least 1 suspension-adapted fibroblast cell
line which is >95% viable and proliferates for >14 days.  

AIM/PURPOSE: To adapt fibroblasts to suspension culture

HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesise that the addition of methylcellulose will support
the adaptation of fibroblasts to suspension culture.

RESULTS SUMMARY: See results and data analyses here

Of the 9 culture conditions evaluated in this study, only the serum control
E125 flask had viable cells remaining following the conclusion of the 30-day
culturing period, with no significant differences between conditions. Cells in
this treatment continued to survive to day 71, however displayed limited
proliferative capacity, and where ultimately discarded.

CONCLUSIONS:

In line with previous suspension attempts the results of this study were
unsuccessful in adapting fibroblast cells to suspension culture conditions,
despite the addition of methylcellulose. Despite these unfortunate results,
this was the first suspension experiment in which the liquid handling
capabilities of the Opentrons were exploited to completely automate the
feeding and staining protocol. Additionally, despite the shortcomings in low
fluorescence we have identified that the Hoechst 3342 Ready Flow cell staining
dye is superior in regard to cell staining efficiency and florescence output.
Furthermore, we have continued to identify more sophisticated techniques for
our FIJI macro.

NEXT STEPS:

\- Further evaluation on the effectiveness of the Hoechst 33342 Ready Probe
staining procedure.

\- Re-perform suspension experiment using lab grade methylcellulose (4000 cP),
instead of food grade methylcellulose.

\- Evaluate feasibility of methylcellulose supplementation on cell survival in
static suspension conditions.

\- Re-design FIJI macro code with adaptive thresholding techniques (i.e.
binarization) and fast-Fourier transformation filters.


