

## Completed by: AK




Methylcellulose (MC) is a chemically modified compound derived from cellulose
and is used as a thickener and emulsifier in various food products, as well as
a bulk-forming laxative. Its application in suspension cell culture systems is
primarily as an anti-clumping agent, helping to prevent the formation of
cellular aggregates responsible for cell apoptosis, as well as preserving cell
function in suspension [1]. It's appeal as a suspension supplement was
highlighted in a relatively recent published article, in which Li and
colleagues were able to develop an efficient large-scale culture system, that
offered serial expansion of human embryonic stem cells with a yield of about
1.5 Ã— 109  (1,500,000,000) cells per 1.5-L culture, whilst simultaneously
maintaining good pluripotency [2]. Based on previous suspension experimental
results and the literature, clump formation represents the main concern in
static and dynamic suspension for causing cell death, reducing viability, and
impacting proliferation [2][3]. Fortunately, the addition of MC has been shown
to prevent cell conglobation and prevent clump formation by increasing
viscosity of the growth media liquid suspension [3]. However, it is unclear
within the literature in regards to the appropriate working concentration of
MC to add into growth media solution. The typical working concentration of MC
in hematopoietic cell culture is 1% [4]. Whilst the higher concentrations of
MC can reduce the fusion of cellular aggregates, collection of cells via
centrifugation for culture media exchange or subculture can be hampered by the
resulting increase in viscosity [3]. It appears a concentration between 0.3% -
0.6% is most appropriate such that it provides the best compromise between
fusion repression and viscosity increase [3][5]. Additionally, the lower
viscosity results in easy handling during medium changing, passaging, etc.
Therefore in this experimental study we will be assessing a number of working
MC concentrations between 0.1% and 1% to assess its impact in promoting
fibroblast adaptation to suspension conditions.

  

References:

[1] Stewart, G.J., Wang, Y.U.Q.I.N. and Niewiarowski, S., 1995.
Methylcellulose protects the ability of anchorage-dependent cells to adhere
following isolation and holding in suspension. Biotechniques, 19(4),
pp.598-604.

[2] Li, X., Ma, R., Gu, Q., Liang, L., Wang, L., Zhang, Y., Wang, X., Liu, X.,
Li, Z., Fang, J. and Wu, J., 2018. A fully defined static suspension culture
system for large-scale human embryonic stem cell production. Cell death &
disease, 9(9), pp.1-9.

[3] Otsuji, T.G., Bin, J., Yoshimura, A., Tomura, M., Tateyama, D., Minami,
I., Yoshikawa, Y., Aiba, K., Heuser, J.E., Nishino, T. and Hasegawa, K., 2014.
A 3D sphere culture system containing functional polymers for large-scale
human pluripotent stem cell production. Stem cell reports, 2(5), pp.734-745.

[4] Lu, S.J., Feng, Q., Caballero, S., Chen, Y., Moore, M.A., Grant, M.B. and
Lanza, R., 2007. Generation of functional hemangioblasts from human embryonic
stem cells. Nature methods, 4(6), pp.501-509.

[5] Jiang, B., Xiang, Z., Ai, Z., Wang, H., Li, Y., Ji, W. and Li, T., 2015.
Generation of cardiac spheres from primate pluripotent stem cells in a small
molecule-based 3D system. Biomaterials, 65, pp.103-114.


