Performed by: Kylie


D1 100% media change proliferation media [D/F + 20% FBS + 1X P/S + 1mg/ml ACA
+ p38i]  
  
PLATE ID: 7509-DOLLY12-Sheep P12-1of1

PLATE LOCATION: Thermo  
  

1) Add 1ml of [D/F + 20% FBS + 1X P/S + 1mg/ml ACA + p38i] to all 12 wells in
a new 24-well plate (see plate map below NOTE THERE MAYBE MORE SAMPLES CHECK
THE PLATES) then place the plate in the incubator at 37'C for atleast 20
minutes  12:27pm

2) With an ethanol sterilised hand carefully remove the tray from the plate
containing the samples, lifting all samples on inserts, and place the tray
into the new plate containing pre-warmed media (gently lower into plate so
that gels remain on/in inserts, check if the media volume is sufficient/or
excessive i.e. will cause overflow)

3) For the samples not on inserts move these into the new plate using a
sterile spatula

4) Place new plate with tray and lid into the incubator at 37'C, 5% CO2  13:20  
  




  

D1 Image samples under light microscopy

1) Move the plate under the light microscope for each sample can you visualize
the cells in the gels?

If so then take pictures (at least n=3 pictures per well, at different
locations on the inserts i.e. for the anchor point inserts image cells around
the legs of the inserts as well as between the legs of the inserts)

2) If cells cannot be visulaised in the gel then take one sample from each
condition and stain with sterile CMFDA

SEE GUIDE ON CMFDA STAINING HERE & SEE PREVIOUS CMFDA PROTOCOL IN LA HERE

In brief:

\- Pre-warm CMFDA media mix (enough to cover all samples requried i.e. in this
instance 6mls for 4 samples) in the waterbath at 37'C for 15min 13:37- 14:13

\- Remove n=1 samples from each condition and place in a new plate

\- Add 1.5ml of pre-warmed CMFDA media mix to each sample, cover the plate in
foil, then incubate at 37'C, 5% C02 for 30 min 14:13 - 14:33

\- Image samples on the Axio (AF488) (at least n=3 pictures per well, at
different locations on the inserts i.e. for the anchor point inserts image
cells around the legs of the inserts as well as between the legs of the
inserts)

\- Return samples to the original plate and return to incubate at 37'C, 5% C02
timestamp

Monitor which samples have been CMFDA stained and which haven't! either only
ever stain one sample from each condition with CMFDA throughout the experiment
(the same sample throughout) or try to distribute the CMFDA staining fairly
between samples (n=3). CMFDA should not kill the cells but the extra time
handling and out of cell culture conditions could effect cell survival.

Note - If samples on conical inserts cannot be imaged at all while inside the
insert we may have to sacrifice one of these samples at progressive timepoints
and stain with MTT to visualise cells (D3, D8). Leave at least one sample for
antibody and DAPI staining on D14.

### Results

  * Results were;
    * [x]  As Usual (this is a repetitive task)
    * [ ]  Unexpected because...
    * []  Need to be further analysed
    * [ ]  Other (.......)

### Relevant Images/Figures:

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recbaVQpPR9R8u7To/images


Media/Reagents used:


Media: m6196


Observations/summary:


  * Upon observation under the microscope, samples containing cells saw cells attached to the base of the well.
  * Cell containing samples were a lot darker in colour compared to the controls without cells. Furthermore they appeared yellow and more bubbly (containing small circular like beads).
  * Media for the samples with cells were all yellow. Media for controls were a pale pink 
  * Only sacrificed non insert sample. Part of the sample was cut and transferred into a separate 24 well plate. 
  * Saw a lot of live cells during staining

  





