

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/22587/trialing-suspension-adaptation-
through-passaging-without-
tryplisation?vc_group_by=day&ct_workflow=all&cf_workflow=500000005

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recoHZ14H3aDX2my7?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE: PPP Q3 KR2 Generate at least 1 suspension-adapted
fibroblast cell line which is >95% viable and proliferates for >14 days.

AIM/PURPOSE: To determine whether cells can be trained to grow in suspension
through serial passages without tryplisation

HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesise that a small proportion of the cells that do not
adhere to culture vessels will be viable and easily adapt to suspension
culture

RESULTS SUMMARY: The hypothesis was not supported in this experiment. Cells
floating in the supernatant of an adherent culture of chicken fibroblasts
(F_NANDO3) were moved into a fresh flask. While they did not appear to follow
the usual curve of mass cell death often seen in suspension adaptation, they
gradually decreased in numbers over 28 days. It was difficult to determine
whether the cells were in fact viable on Day 0, and based on the early
apoptosis seen in the adherent cells from the same culture, it is likely that
they were not viable.

CONCLUSIONS: F_NANDO3 fibroblasts from the supernatant of adherent culture
were unable to proliferate in static suspension culture. However, these cells
came from a culture which was terminated shortly after due to high rates of
cell death, so it is difficult to ascertain the exact reason for the failure
of this experiment.

NEXT STEPS: It was discovered at the close of this experiment that the NANDO
adherent culture from where the cells were removed was discarded within 6 days
of the passage due to high rates of cell death. It is therefore difficult to
conclude whether these cells were already non-viable when removed from the
culture, or whether they died while in static suspension culture. This
experiment should therefore be repeated using various cell types and with
direct comparisons to the adherent culture from where they are removed from.


