Day -2: Assemble and sterilize bioreactor vessel, calibrate pumps  
StepTaskDescriptionReferenceDoneChecked  
1Inspect components  
Operating manual page(s) 85TTKK  
2Check software connectionTurn on control tower, connect to control tower web
server from any lab computer (switching WIFI networks may be required). GO TO
THIS ip ADDRESS: https://192.168.0.250/Operating manual page(s) 45TT  
  
3Calibrate the pH probeGather 2 reference buffers (perferably pH 7 and pH 10)
in small beakers, a wash bottle, and a spare wash beaker. Connect the pH probe
up to the control tower. Run the pH calibration program. Wash the probe tip
thoroughly with deionized water and wipe with a lint-free wipe before placing
it in the reference buffers.Operating manual page(s) 43,67TT  
  
4Ensure that the DO probe is working  
Operating manual page(s) 67TT - NOT WORKING  
  
5Install impellerInstall the piece in the
headplate.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3864403/TT  
  
6Install spargerInstall the piece in the headplate. Put a piece of tubing on
the top of it, press a gas filter into the end of the tubing, use a cable tie
and tension gun to secure the tubing, and clamp it
off.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3864403/TT  
  
7Install dip tube for samplingInstall the piece in the headplate. Put a
"BENCHMARK" single-use aspetic sampling tube on the top of it, use a cable tie
and tension gun to secure the tubing, and clamp it
off.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3864403/TT  
  
8Install dip tube for harvestingInstall the piece in the headplate. Put a
piece of tubing on the top of it, use a cable tie and tension gun to secure
the tubing, and clamp it
off.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3864403/NONE  
  
9Install dip tube for drainingInstall the piece in the headplate. Put a piece
of tubing on the top of it, use a cable tie and tension gun to secure the
tubing, and clamp it
off.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3864403/TT  
  
10Install multiport for liquid additionInstall the piece in the headplate. Put
pieces of tubing on the top of it, use a cable tie and tension gun to secure
the tubing, and clamp them
off.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3864403/TT  
  
11Add 300 mL of PBS containing microcarriers to the culture vessel for
sterilization  
Operating manual page(s) 69TT - PBS ONLY, NO MICROCARRIERS  
  
  
12Install headplatePut the top plate on carefully and align it correctly. Be
careful to make sure that the installed parts and baffles are not touching
each other.  
Tighten knurled screws firmly by hand (no tool).https://www.infors-
ht.com/en/blog/how-to-set-up-a-bioreactor/TT - NO BAFFLES  
  
  
13Prepare the adjustment agent bottlesNot all corrective reagents can be
sterilized in the autoclave. Instead of adding these kind of adjustment agents
(ammonia solution, etc.), fill those with water and, after autoclaving (in a
sterile work cabinet) replace the water with a filter-sterilized corrective
reagent. This also applies to many substrate feeds, which can caramelize if
heated.https://www.infors-ht.com/en/blog/how-to-set-up-a-bioreactor/TT -
SILICONE TUBING AND MALE STT CONNECTOR ATTACHED, BOTTLES NOT FILLED WITH WATER  
  
  
14Connect transfer lines  
Operating manual page(s) 68TT - NOT REQUIRED  
  
  
15Clamp lines  
Operating manual page(s) 69TT - ONLY TUBES THAT DIP INTO WATER  
  
  
16Ensure that the pressure can equilibrate in all vessels through a gas
permeable filter membraneCover filters with aluminium foil to prevent ingress
of waterhttps://www.infors-ht.com/en/blog/how-to-set-up-a-bioreactor/TT  
  
  
17Fit the pH probe  
  
TT  
  
  
18Fit the dissolved oxygen probe  
  
TT  
  
  
19Fit the level sensor probe  
  
TT  
  
  
20Fit the gas inlet filter  
  
TT  
  
  
21Fit the gas outlet filterCover the filter lightly with aluminium foil. Leave
the exhaust filter open and do not clamp it off under any circumstances! This
is essential for balancing the pressure during autoclaving.https://www.infors-
ht.com/en/blog/how-to-set-up-a-bioreactor/TT  
  
  
22Autoclave the vessel at 121 deg C for at least 30 minutes  
Operating manual page(s) 69TT  
  
  
23Calibrate peristaltic pumps  
  
NOT DONE  

?  
  
  


