

Working Current Knowledge Summary

Electrical stimulation has been found to increase myogenic maturation, myotube
formation and alignment. This is demonstrated in literature through enhanced
myosin heavy chain expression and increased myogenic markers MyoD and desmin.
Most stimulating setups use charge balanced square biphasic waveforms or a
salt bridge to prevent pH changes to the media. Different burst and frequency
patterns have been shown to produce different outcomes, such as different
myosin isoforms. Voltages used are commonly in the range of 2-100 mV/cm or
2-10 V/cm, where the units V/cm refers to the total voltage used over the
distance between the positive and negative electrodes. Studies which have
shown alignment have used voltages in the rage of 2 - 10 V/cm. Stimulation is
typically started at or after the cells have been changed from growth to
differentiation media. It is hypothesised that electrical stimulation induces
myotube formation by promoting cell growth in a PI3K-dependent manner.




Recommendation for Implementation

Try the following:

  1.  0 - 100 mV/cm and 2 - 10 V/cm experiments.
  2. Biphasic signal. 50 - 100 Hz. Vary intermittent stimulation: every 100 s to 1 hour.
  3. Check for cell alignment and maturation via immunofluorescence and western blot.
  4. Use Arduino Uno R3 to create electrical stimulation with stainless steel electrodes for good charge transfer and corrosion resistance. (Code for the waveform can be developed using the Supplementary Information from Shamsabadi and Selvaganapathy. 2020. Tissue-in-a-Tube: three-dimensional in vitro tissue constructs with integrated multimodal environmental stimulation. Or other online forums for open source Arduino code can also be used).




ELECTRICAL STIMULATION (please insert main finding and reference):

1. Electrophysiologic stimulation improves myogenic potential of muscle precursor cells grown in a 3D collagen scaffold - Elena Serena et al. - 2008

https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1179/174313208X281109

An electric field to mimic neuronal activity (70mV/cm, square waveform, 3 ms,
33.3 mHz) was applied to muscle precursor cells cultured within 3D collagen
scaffolds. This resulted in increased expression of myogenic markers MyoD and
desmin. It also increased the release rate of NOx (an early molecule activator
of satellite cells in vivo) by 65%.

  

  

2. Tissue-in-a-Tube: three-dimensional in vitro tissue constructs with integrated multimodal environmental stimulation - A.Shahin-ShamsabadiaP.R.Selvaganapathy - 2020  

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590006420300302

A step electrical signal with peak to peak voltage of 10 V (5 V/cm) and
frequency of 50 Hz was applied (5 samples in parallel). An open source
microcontroller, Arduino Uno R3, was used to create this signal and to control
a motor that was used for perfusion (flow rate of 0.1 mL/min for 1 min every
12 h). The code used for programming the microcontroller that controls the
bioreactor is included as supplementary information.  

Electrical stimulation while greatly affected the cell alignment and fiber
formation, did not influence the protein content of samples.  

Supplementary info: https://ars.els-
cdn.com/content/image/1-s2.0-S2590006420300302-mmc2.pdf

  

  

3\. Effects of chronic stimulation with different impulse patterns on the
expression of myosin isoforms in rat myotube cultures - Karin Naumann, Dirk
Pette - 1994

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8187982/

Generally, stimulation enhanced myotube maturation and the development of
cross-striations. This effect was more pronounced at low (e.g., 100 Hz every
100 s) than at high burst frequency (e.g., 100 Hz every 4 s).

The developmental state of the myotubes was judged by their myosin heavy chain
(HC) patterns. Newly formed myotubes only expressed the embryonic isoform,
HCemb older myotubes expressed the neonatal isoform HCneo as well as the fast
adult isoforms HCIIb and HCIId.

Bursts of 250ms duration at 15 Hz, 40 Hz, or 100 Hz, repeated every second or
every 4s, induced the expression of slow myosin, i.e., HCI. Bursts of 250ms
duration at IOOHz, repeated every 100 s, enhanced the expression of HCIId, but
not of HCI. Because slow myosin was induced at high burst frequency with low
and high pulse rates, we suggest that burst frequency rather than pulse
frequency has a specifying effect on myosin expression.

Fig. 1 a-d. Silver-stained electrophoresis (a) and immunoblot analyses (b-d)
of myosin heavy chain patterns in extracts from a fibroblast culture and from
myotube cultures of different age.

  

4\. Promotion of Myogenic Maturation by Timely Application of Electric Field
Along the Topographical Alignment

https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/abs/10.1089/ten.tea.2017.0055

When EF stimulation was applied in the early stage at day 0, there was no
difference in MHC expression compared with the control group. In contrast,
cell groups stimulated at days 4 or 6 showed significant increase in the MHC
expression with more myotubes compared with the control group.  
Additionally, they found that the level of C2C12 differentiation depended on
the direction of the EF. In the case of the stimulation at day 6, the parallel
EF direction dramatically enhanced the MHC expression and myotube formation.
The fusion index was higher in the parallel arrangement of the topographical
and electrical cues than in the orthogonal case.

They hypothesise the EF stimulation induces the myotube formation in a
PI3K-dependent manner.

  

Summary Table

  

Author & YearPaper TitleDOIApparatusStimulus Voltage /
WaveformCurrentFrequency / Pulse Duration etcStart Timepoint /
DurationAnalysisOutcome  
Serena et al.,  
2013Electrophysiologic stimulation improves myogenic potential of muscle
precursor cells grown in a 3D collagen scaffold

  * https://doi.org/10.1179/174313208X281109

NASquare Wave  
0 V baseline  
70mV/cmNA33.3 mHz  
3 msApplied 3 days after cell seeding on scaffold.  
  
Increased expression of myogenic markers MyoD and desmin.  
Increased the release rate of NOx (an early molecule activator of satellite
cells in vivo) by 65%.  
Shahin-shamsabadi and Selvaganapathy  
2020Tissue-in-aTube: three-dimensional in vitro tissue constructs with
integrated multimodal environmental
stimulationhttps://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtbio.2020.100070Arduino Uno R310 V  
(5 V/cm)NA50 Hz  
  
Greatly affected the cell alignment and fiber formation, did not influence the
protein content of samples.  
Ko et al.,  
2018Promotion of Myogenic Maturation by Timely Application of Electric Field
Along the Topographical Alignment10.1089/ten.tea.2017.0055NA2
V/cmNAIntermittent EF cycles of 10 min stimulation separated by 20 min resting
were applied for the total stimulation time of 3 hRepeated cycles of
stimulation and resting periods. Intermittent EF cycles of 10 min stimulation
separated by 20 min resting were applied for the total stimulation time of 3
h.  
Immunofluorescence  
  
Using fast skeletal myosin (MHC) monoclonal antibody (1:100; Abcam) with Alex
Flour 488 mouse secondary antibody (1:200; Invitrogen).  Additionally actin
cytoskeleton was stained by Alex Flour 568 phalloidin (1:50; Invitrogen) and
cell nuclei were stained by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI).  
  
Enhanced MHC expression and myotube formation. Alignment.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Enhanced myotube maturation and the development of cross-striations.  
  


