

To test the effect of different electrical stimulation patterns on cell
growth, differentiation and maturation, a stimulation setup is required which
includes a stimulator and electrodes to deliver the stimulation into the media
of nearby cells. A well-plate culture dish format allows for controls,
replicates and different conditions to be present on the same test plate.
Thus, this experiment investigates the construction of an electrode plate for
a well-plate culture dish format, and the sourcing of an appropriate
stimulator.

Electrical stimulation of cells in vitro runs the risk of introducing chemical
byproducts and pH changes to the media. To prevent this from occurring, most
stimulation set ups use salt bridges or balanced, biphasic stimulation
waveforms, however this setup is more complicated to implement than a simple
metallic electrode stimulating with direct current (Mobini, 2016). Although
many previous studies (Banan Sadeghian 2018; Khodabukus et al., 2019; Shahin-
Shamsabadi and Selvaganapathy, 2020; Van der Schaft 2013) have demonstrated
improved maturation using stimulation patterns called pulsetrains with
biphasic waveforms, some studies have also shown short exposure periods of
simple DC stimulation can influence cell behaviour such as proliferation and
differentiation (Mobini, 2016). For this reason, while the infrastructure to
utilise more complex stimulation patterns is being developed, testing will
begin with simple DC stimulation. The electrode plate and stimulator setup
will be tested to define the limits of stimulation amplitude without inducing
electrolysis, as well as general functionality and usability.


