Aim/Purpose


To develop the physical infrastructure needed to stimulate cells in well
plates.


Hypothesis


Stainless steel electrodes embedded into well-plate lids will adequately allow
for electrical stimulation of media in multiple well-plate formats without
noticeable dissolution of the electrodes.


Technical Gap


The conductive materials used for implanted electrodes requires careful
consideration of the conductivity, biocompatibility, mechanical stability and
corrosion resistance. Nobel metals and alloys, due to their low reactivity
over chronic timescales, display many of these properties. This is the main
reason gold (Au), platinum (Pt) and iridium (Ir) have long been the most
popular materials for implanted electrodes. Non-nobel metals such as tungsten
(W), tantalum (Ta), titanium (Ti) and stainless steel are also used due to
their high resistance to corrosion. The lower cost of stainless steel compared
to platinum and gold is motive to use stainless steel as the electrode
material of choice for our experiments. However, grades such as 304 it may not
support the voltage ranges required for adequate stimulation without corroding
the electrode. Physically implementing the electrodes into the well-plate lid
is still yet to be demonstrated.


Method/Procedure


## Prototyping Stage

Holes are to be drilled into well-plate lids and stainless steel electrodes
are implemented using wire. The electrodes are fastened using silicon adhesive
with exposed contact sites for attaching cables to the stimulator.




## Preliminary Testing Stage

Direct current stimulation ranges will be tested using a standard DC output.
Testing will be conducted using water and media to look for effects such as
dissolution of the electrode or chemical reactions - ie hydrolysis.
Preliminary pulsetrain tests using a stimulator will also indicate whether
more complex stimulation with charge-balanced bipolar waveforms can be
utilised at Vow, before entering the biological testing phase.




## Test Sterilisation

Ethanol and UV sterilisation to be tested by sterilisation of the lid and
placed in growth media for 1 week then checkfor contamination.  
  


