Aim/Purpose


To test charge balanced electrical stimulation parameters consistent with
similar waveforms in previous literature, using the StimJim stimulator and
stainless steel electrodes with MuSC cultures in a 12WP format.


Hypothesis


Chronic electrical stimulation using a charge balanced waveform and similar
parameters to previous literature will not result in any indication of harmful
electrochemical byproducts, pH changes or increased cell death.


Technical Gap


Some papers have shown successful improvement of differentiation or results
which suggest improved maturation using simple DC voltage set ups with Pt
electrodes (Mobini et al., 2016) or biphasic pulse train set ups with
stainless steel electrodes (Donnelly et al., 2010). This series of tests looks
at the effects of a simple set up using cheap materials and minimal hardware.
A cheap and simple electrode set up may be the easiest to scale but poses the
most risk of causing damage to the cells through media pH changes or other
biochemical reactions. The stimulation setup used in this series of tests will
consist of a charge balanced stimulator with stainless steel electrodes.
Preliminary tests (EPIC21480) have shown that without charge balanced
stimulation, severe electrode dissolution and biochemical reactions occur
within the media using stainless steel electrodes. Other electrode materials
such as Pt are much more expensive than stainless steel, so it will be of
value to investigate this cheaper electrode material first, with charge
balanced stimulation.  


Method/Procedure


## Method Summary

Day  
Procedure  
  
-3Seed 2x12WP control with 60k - 80k cells/well in DMEM/F12 + 20%FBS + 1XP/S growth media.  
-2100% media change with growth media.  
-150% media change with growth media.  
0Switch to E6 differentiation media.  
  
1-7Daily 100% media change with E6 differentiation media.  
8Begin electrical stimulation.  
9-11Daily 100% media change with E6 differentiation media.  
  
12Live/Dead stain Plate 1 for Timepoint 1. 100% media change on Plate 2.  
13-15Daily 100% media change with E6 differentiation media.  
  
16Fix and MyoG/MF20 antibody stain Plate 2.  
17Analyse Results


  
  
## Test Conditions and Cell Requirements

Samples  
  
n=3 of cells exposed to stainless steel electrodes and electrical stimulation
(4 V/cm)  
n=3 of cells exposed to stainless steel electrodes and electrical stimulation
(1.3 V/cm)

n=3 of cells exposed to stainless steel electrodes (control 1)  
n=3 cells not exposed to electrodes or electrical stimulation (control 2)

= 6 stimulated samples

= 6 unstimulated conditions

###  
12 Samples Total Per Plate

### 2 Plates Total = 24 Samples

###

### Example Experiment Setup

###  

###  

### Stimulation Waveforms

Parameters for the PulseTrain  
  
  period:    500000 usec (0.500 sec, 2.000 Hz)  
  duration:  10000000 usec (10.000 sec)  
  
  stage    duration     output0   output1  
    0     6000 usec     3000mV     1000mV  
    1     6000 usec    -3000mV    -1000mV

  
This is programmed into the stimulator via the Serial Monitor of the Arduino
software with the following sequence:

S0,0,0,500000,10000000; 3000,1000,6000; -3000,-1000,6000

  
For detailed instructions on how to operator the stimulator, refer to the
StimJim Notion Page.




## Cell and Media Requirements

### Seeding

### Each well in the 12WP is recommended to be seeded with 60k - 80k cells,
which equates to 720k - 960k cells per plate.  
  
1M cells divided up evenly per plate is the recommended method for seeding out
these plates.

  

Media

Generally 48 mL of media is required per day to feed 2 x 12WP with 2 mL per
well of media.

The first three days of culture is generally anticipated to be done using
growth media, however the cells may reach confluence earlier and will thus
require switching to differentiation media earlier.

Since E6 has an expiry of one week, it is recommended to make up 7x50 mL (350
mL) of E6 in 50 mL aliquots when starting the differentiation stage of the
experiment. Black plastic 50 mL falcon tubes are useful for this.

Note - Please double check you have enough of all reagents before commencing
the experiment.  
Note -  Serum media will be used in this experiment (D/F + 20% FBS +1X P/S)
for cell expansion and seeding, seeing as we are already using animal
components (gelatin) and our harvests of ACF cells are typically much lower
than for serum.




## Daily Procedure

D-3 Seed Culture in GM

D-2 100% media change (GM)

D-1 50% media change (GM)

D0 100% media change (E6)

D1 100% media change (E6)

D2 100% media change (E6)

D3 100% media change (E6)

D4 100% media change (E6)

D5 100% media change (E6)

D6 100% media change (E6)  

D7 100% media change (E6)

D8 100% media change (E6) \- Begin stimulation.

D9 100% media change (E6)

D10 100% media change (E6)

D11 100% media change (E6) \- Live/Dead stain Plate 1.

D12 100% media change (E6)  

D13 100% media change (E6)

D14 100% media change (E6)

D15 \- Fix Plate 2. Finish stimulation and cell culture.

Primary antibody staining (MyoG, MF20)

Secondary antibody staining and DAPI (MyoG, MF20)

Image samples

Analysis

Write report

Update Header page  

Ensure all lab books are complete & assign for review  

Have entries and report peer reviewed

Make amendments




# Live/Dead Staining

The Live Dead assay is a mixture of two fluorescent dyes that differentially
label live and dead cells.  
  
Live stain we have in-house: CMFDA live green cell tracker

Dead stain we have in-house: Propidium Iodide

  

The Live cell dye labels intact, viable cells (stains live cells green). It is
membrane permeant and non-fluorescent until  intracellular esterases remove
ester groups and render the molecule fluorescent. This can only occur if the
cell is metabolically active. The Excitation (max) and Emission(max) are 494nm
and 515nm. We have CMFDA Live green cell tracker in house for our live cell
dye, but there is a cheaper alternative called Calcein.

  

The Dead cell dye labels cells with compromised plasma membranes (stains dead
cells red). It is membrane-impermeant and binds to DNA with high affinity.
Once bound to DNA, the fluorescence increases >30-fold. The Excitation (max)
and Emission(max) are 528nm and 617nm. We have propidium iodide in-house for
staining dead cells. Be careful when handling this dye and do not get it on
your skin!

  

The Live Dead assay protocol uses a one-step staining procedure that is simple
and fast. It can be used directly in cell culture media (however serum can
interfere with staining so it is best to prepare this in serum free media).

  

The live stain is added to cell media first then left to incubate at 37'C
(cover in foil). Once pre-warmed you add this mix to your samples of interest
then incubate at 37'C protected from light. After 30 minutes the dead dye is
directly added into the media, and incubated at room temperature for 5 min.
Next you image your cells on the Axio (channel AF488 for CMFDA [Live cells]
and AF 555 for propidium iodide [Dead cells]).

  

Note - Do not move samples in between imaging on each channel, in case you
want to overlay these images later. Take 3 images per channel of the same
sample in different locations. Green cells indicate living cells, red cells
indicate dead cells (see figure below).

  

Note  \- You can either remove the dye and keep the cells in pre-warmed media
for imaging, or leave in the dye-media mix (if you are imaging quickly, as
propidium iodide will have a negative effect on cell survival overtime).

  

Note - If you want to keep your samples alive for progressive staining you can
do this with the CMFDA live cell tracker. I.e. you can stain on day 1 of cell
culture, and then again on day 4 of cell culture (allow a day or so for the
dye to fade). However, the presence of propidium iodide will kill your cells,
so progressive timepoint staining with both live and dead dyes cannot be done.

  
Protocol:

  

Prepare CMFDA  
  

Preparation of stock and and working solutions for CMFDA Cell Tracker (used
due to not being able to locate Calcein)

1\. Remove the CMFDA powder from the freezer (main lab) and allow it to warm
to room temperature. Each aliquot is 50 ug.

2\. Briefly centrifuge the tube to pellet the CMFDA powder

3\. Add 50 uL high-quality, anhydrous DMSO to the powder and pipette up and
down until well suspended. This will yield a 1 mM stock solution.

NOTE - Once prepared, the DMSO stock solution should be stored at -20'C in a
70 mL pot submerged in silica-gel desiccant beads for a short period for one
series of experiments.

4\. Transfer 20 uL of the 1mM CMFDA stock solution to 10 mL of prepared
DMEM/F12 PRF growth media in a light safe 15 mL falcon tube to protect it from
light (or make up volume needed at 0.5ul per ml). Vortex to ensure thorough
mixing. The resulting solution is approximately 2 uM CMFDA working solution.  
  
NOTE - if keeping the cells in culture after staining (i.e. only staining with
CMFDA not propidium iodide, then sterile filter the media mix to ensure
sterility)

NOTE - only use the working solution once (do not store) so only make up as
much as you need

5\. Place the CMFDA-media mix in the water bath at 37'C for a minimum of 10
minutes

  

Stain your samples

  

5\. Remove media from your sample of interest and then add 1 mL per well (or
enough to cover the sample) of the pre-warmed DMEM/F12 PRF growth media to the
sample.  
  
NOTE - If the media on your sample previously contained serum you can wash
gently with serum free media or PBS before the addition of the CMFDA - as
serum can interfere with the staining)

  

6\. Cover your plate in foil and place in the incubator at 37'C for 30 min.  
  
7\. After 30 min you add 5ul per ml of your Propidium Iodide stain directly
into the media (already containing the CMFDA) and leave to incubate on the
bench at room temp for 5 minutes.  

  

Note - Propidium Iodide is pre-prepared as a frozen aliquot in main lab
freezer (concentration is 0.2 mg/mL, it was originally 1 mg/mL but has since
been diluted 201 uL in 799 uL of dPBS) RETURN TO FREEZER IMMEDIATELY AFTER
USE.

  

8\. Image your samples on the Axio (channel AF488 for CMFDA [Live cells] and
AF 555 for propidium iodide [Dead cells]). Green cells indicate living cells,
red cells indicate dead cells. Do not move samples in between imaging on each
channel (in case you want to overlay these images later). Take 3 images per
channel of the same sample in different locations, all on the same
magnification.

  

Note  \- You can either remove the dye and keep the cells in pre-warmed media
for imaging, or leave samples in the dye-media mix (if you are imaging
quickly, as propidium iodide will have a negative effect on cell survival
overtime).

  

Analysis

  

For each image taken in each location count how many cells were stained green
(channel AF488, alive) and how many were stained red (channel AF555, dead).
From this you can calculate percent survival/viability.

  

Add together the live and dead cell count to obtain a total cell count. Then
divide the live cell count by the total cell count to calculate the percentage
viability/survival.

  

Number of live cells + number of dead cells = Total cells

  

(Number of live cells/total cells) X 100 = % viability  
  
  
Optional:  
  
It may be easier for calculating percent survival to have your images
overlaid. Once you have your paired images from each channel you can colourise
your images on Image J. Colourise channel AF488 as green for CMFDA [Live
cells] and channel AF 555 as red for propidium iodide [Dead cells]). Then
overlay your images to get an image which resembles the following:


