

Problem: To get cells into suspension asap, we need to kick off the
experiments most likely to successfully adapt cells to suspension asap. The
purpose of this page is to list the ingredients that we suspect will aid in
adaptation of cells to suspension and why. Then we can prioritise the
conditions and begin to plan/kick-off experiments.


Basal Media formulations


DMEM/F12

CDM4Avian liquid

HyCell CHO liquid medium without L-glutamine and with HT

ActiPro liquid medium

DM4HEK293 liquid medium without phenol red, L-glutamine, HEPES

CDM4CHO liquid medium with L-glutamine


Serum-replacement formulations


Hydrolysates

KnockOutâ„¢ Serum Replacement

  

  

Note that the 5% serum condition in suspension culture #4 looks better than
the 20% serum cultures.


Media Supplements


FGF-b \- key growth factor for fibroblast proliferation. Has been suggested to
add 100ng/mL to stimulate growth

IGF-LR2 \- key growth factor for fibroblast proliferation. Has been suggested
to add 100ng/mL to stimulate growth  
  
Anti-clumping agent - 1:500 concentration had no effect. 1:100 concentration
lead to 6 days of proliferation and viabilities over 95%.  
  
RevitaCell - This ROCK inhibitor at a 1:100 concentration did not stimulate
proliferation, but did allow cultures to achieve viabilities over 95%.  
  
Y-27632 dihydrochloride - 10uM and 20uM ROCK inhibitor tested. Neither
appeared to help substantially with viability or proliferation. 10uM + 1:100
ACA led to higher rates of viability and total numbers of cells relative to
the negative control as well as the 10uM ROCKi condition. No cultures in this
experiment (#3) achieved viabilities over 60% and we missed some counts due to
the handover so this data is uncertain.

Pluronic F-68 \- The condition with 0.1% w/v Pluronic F-68 (Poloxamer 188)
achieved ~60% viability. (Compare to the control at 20-30% viability for the
entire experiment). Cell numbers dropped much more slowly over the first 10
days. (After the initial drop on day #2, they sustained their numbers until
day 10). No pickup in cell numbers in the 16-20 day frame, but I wonder if we
missed a rebound between days 2-8.

RGD Peptide - Integrin binding peptide. Should help fibroblast maintain
biologically critical signalling associated with adherence. 10mM RGD tested
with 1:100 ACA. Suspension Culture #4. Only counts for ~6 days at the
beginning. Bonnie says there is a lot of debris and will attempt another count
tomorrow/Friday with Marie's system. Early results suggested RGD helped with
viability relative to YIGSR.

YIGSR Peptide - Integrin binding peptide. Should help fibroblast maintain
biologically critical signalling associated with adherence. 1mM YIGSR tested
with 1:100 ACA. Suspension Culture #4. Only counts for ~6 days at the
beginning. Bonnie says there is a lot of debris and will attempt another count
tomorrow/Friday with Marie's system.

Histone Deactylase 1 (HDAC1) - p53 inhibitor, should encourage immortalisation
& adaptation. Not tested, in house.  
  
Histone Deactylase 2 (HDAC2) - p53 inhibitor, should encourage immortalisation
& adaptation. Not tested, in house.


Cell lines


Most of the adaptation experiments have been completed using DOLLY12 WCB.

Suspension adaptation #5 focuses on p2 chicken fibroblasts and p1 alpaca
fibroblasts.


Key take-aways to date


1) 1:100 ACA helps with proliferation & viability. We have seen this in 2 x
experiments now.

2) ROCK inhibition doesn't appear to substantially help with proliferation. It
may help with viability but ACA does this better.  

3) Pluronic F-68 may be worth further exploration, especially in the first 10
days. There might be something interesting there that in combo with ACA or
other ingredients, might get us over the top.

  

We absolutely need to trial some better basal medias as soon as they come in.

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________  
4) 5% FBS might be better than 20% FBS, but the counting issue means that we
only have a couple of days of data for this rather than the full 30. Bonnie
will get some more counts on this later this week and this will hopefully be
illuminating. Apparently these samples (all culture #4) had more debris than
the others. RGD might also be better than YGSR/no peptide conditions, but
similarly, hopefully Bonnie's info this week will be illuminating.


