

Purpose of this experiment:  
The purpose of EPIC 17048 Conditions for optimal fibroblast aggregates was to
assess fibroblast aggregation in response to various concentrations of TGFb
and Vitamin C, in the presence or absence of shaking. We hoped to identify a
combination of TGFb and Vitamin C that allows for formation of fibroblast
aggregates in the absence of shaking.  
  

TGFb and Vitamin C treatment in the context of agitation leads to production
of fibroblast aggregates.

When confluent fibroblasts in a T175 flask were placed on a shaker set at 100
rpm and incubated with media (DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1x PS) containing 50 ug/mL
Vitamin C and 10 ng/mL TGFb, or 50ug/mL of Vit C alone fibroblast aggregates
formed within 12 hours. These results confirmed our findings from EPIC 16034.
These fibroblast aggregates were clearly visible in the flask (i.e.
macroscopic), and held their form when they were harvested and washed.

  

Proposed mechanism for formation of fibroblast aggregates

Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid or LAA2P, has previously been shown to
increase fibroblast adhesion [4], perhaps via increased production of
collagen. Specifically, Vitamin C acts as a co-factor for the proline and
lysine hydroxylases that stabilise the collagen molecule tertiary structure
and also promotes collagen gene expression. In the presence of Vitamin C,
there is also increased cross-linking of collagen [5].

TGFb stimulates the synthesis and assembly of matrix proteins including both
fibronectin and collagen [6]. Specifically TGFb promotes fibroblast collagen
formation through up-regulation of miR-21 and the PTEN/AKT signalling pathway
[7]. TGFb is typically produced by immune cells such as macrophages in the
context of fibrosis, or formation of scar tissue [8].

Based on these findings in the literature, I hypothesised that both Vitamin C
and TGFb are required for formation of fibroblast aggregates. TGFb stimulates
increased synthesis of fibroblast collagen via miR-21 and the PTEN/AKT
signalling pathway. Collagen cross-linking is driven by Vitamin C, which also
helps to stabilise the collagen molecule tertiary structure. The increased
production of extracellular matrix proteins leads the fibroblasts to bind to
each other rather than the base of the T-flask. Though at Vow we are unlikely
to perform specific experiments to determine whether this hypothesised
mechanism is correct, I will spend some time determining whether treatment of
fibroblasts with both TGFb and Vitamin C in tandem is critical for this
process. Based on this hypothesised method of action, shaking of the T175 may
actually not be required for formation of aggregates. It may speed the process
along, facilitating interactions of TGFb and Vitamin C with adherent
fibroblasts, but I will also perform a follow-up experiment to determine
whether shaking of the T175 flask is critical for aggregate formation.

There is literature to indicate that mechanical stresses can lead to formation
of cellular aggregates [9, 10]. Perhaps to achieve the "strand-like"
structure, the mechanical stresses are important. However, for scalability
purposes, achieving formation of fibroblast sheets without shaking is an
avenue worth pursuing, given that I have found no literature to indicate that
mechanical stress impacts fibroblast collagen or ECM production.  
  
However, these findings indicate that Vitamin C alone may be sufficient to
drive formation of aggregates. This would be advantageous given the costs of
TGFb.

  

Use of Vitamin C and TGFb in current ACF media formulations

It is important to note that Vitamin C (LAA2P) and TGFb are currently used in
E6, E8, and our ACF media formulations. In both E8 and E6 media, 64ug/mL LAA2P
is used which is comparable to the 50ug/mL LAA2P used to facilitate fibroblast
aggregates. 2ng/mL TGFb is a component of both E8 media and our ACF media
formulation for proliferation. This is 20% of the amount of TGFb used here to
form aggregates. It will be interesting and important to optimise the
concentrations of Vitamin C and TGFb in the fibroblast media as we move
towards a ACF media for fibroblasts, so that we can facilitate proliferation
as desired and also produce aggregates as desired.

  

Limitations

A current limitation of this protocol is that it relies on adherent culture.
We will need to find a way to form aggregates from fibroblasts in suspension
culture if we are going to scale up this process for use commercially.

In addition, it would be best to complete this experiment with multiple
replicates so statistical analysis could be performed and we can verify
whether the addition of TGFb is truly critical for formation of aggregates or
not.

  

Overall Conclusion

Fibroblast aggregates form when fibroblasts are grown to confluence, then
stimulated with 10 ng/mL TGFb and 50 ug/mL Vitamin C for approximately 12
hours while on a shaker platform set to 100 rpm. These fibroblast aggregates
have a texture resembling thin noodles and don't possess any negative flavours
or attributes that would need to be masked. Given the macroscopic biomass that
was able to be produced from the single T175 used for this experiment, this
pilot experiment absolutely indicates that further investigations should be
completed. Particularly, the concept of removing TGFb should be explored more
fully.

  

Future Directions

Production is doing some work to further our understanding of how we can use
aggregates to produce mass for the product team.

  

References:

1\. https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjE1Ljh8MTA2MzE3LzE2Ni9UcmVlTm9kZS8zNTgxNDE4NTA5fDU0Ny44

2\.
https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/product/sigma/z720860?lang=en&region=AU&gclid=CjwKCAjwm7mEBhBsEiwA_of-
TJVdLcdsvvOWEav6IY_kMElV8-Fso2iktJU81jUpkWiZUtScYlgs5BoC_6cQAvD_BwE

3\. https://www.notion.so/vow/Matrix-Meats-Hybrid-Unit-
Assessment-30-4-21-5562aae010c8402ab7dae930aea920eb

4\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17325628/

5\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5579659/

6\. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/art.10621

7\. https://www.nature.com/articles/srep32231

8\. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-74179-6

9\. https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/technical-documents/articles/biology/cell-
culture-troubleshooting-cell-clumping.html

10\. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-14325-9


