Author: Ella Hodder


Clubhouse Link: https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/21458/dolly12-cells-in-
fibrin-gels-cultured-on-conical-inserts-anchor-
points?cf_workflow=500000005&ct_workflow=all


Aim/purpose


To stimulate differentiation and alignment through passive mechanical
stimulation using DOLLY12 cells encapsulated in fibrin gels on 3D printed
anchor point or conical shaped constructs.


Hypothesis


DOLLY12 cells will survive the fibrin encapsulation process and demonstrate
elongation and alignment between the anchor points/around the conical inserts
inserted in the gel.  
  
  


Technical Gap/Background


In the paper by Kaplan and Simsa et al., 2019 3D printed inserts were
succesfully implemented to direct bovine muscle satellite cell (BSC) alignment
within fibrin hydrogels to generate bioarticficial muscles (BAMs) between 3D
printed anchor point constructs (see Fig.1).  
  
In a previous experiment at Vow we confirmed MuSC survival following cell
encapsulation in a 3% alginate hydrogel. Following on from this finding, we
tested 3D printed anchor point inserts (generated based on the Kaplan inserts)
with MuSCs encapsulated in an alginate hydrogel (see here). However, in the
alginate anchor point study we did not see evidence of cell migration or
alignment within the gel. Subsequently, it was theorised that the alginate gel
was not a compatible material for encapsulated MuSC culture, and that this was
most likely due to the inherent negative charge and a lack of active binding
sites on alginate.

Mosa Meats recently suggested a potential architecture for a scalable
maturation bioreactor based on passive mechanical stimulation. Similar to
above, cells are embedded in a gel matrix, seeded in a circular trough and
cultured until cells fuse into myotubes. Upon contracting, the resulting
circular muscle precursor can evade excessive mechanical stress by wandering
up a cone shaped well, with the cone angle dictating the amount of passive
stress exerted on the cells.  
  
However, thus far, we have not attempted to culture MuSCs in a fibrin gel,
neither have we implemented anchor point based culture in combination with
cells in fibrin. Consequently, we are interested to see whether our MuSCs will
be able to survive, migrate, align and mature between 3D printed anchor points
when encapsulated within a fibrin hydrogel.  
  
Notes  
  
In order to replicate the Kaplan study I have adjusted the protocol from the
Kaplan and Simsa et al., 2019 paper (section 2.3. 3D BAM Formation). See my
adjusted method in the experimental plan below.  
  
How does the fibrin gel work?

The fibrin gels prepared by Kaplan and Simsa were made up of the following
components: fibrinogen, calcium chloride, thrombin and aminocaproic acid
(ACA).  
  
The principle of the gels was as follows:

Fibrinogen is a soluble blood plasma protein (one of 13 coagulation factors
responsible for normal blood clotting). Thrombin (a clotting enzyme) was added
to the mix in order to convert the fibronogen material into a tough fibrin gel
(to set the gel). Wherein, in it's native state in the body fibrin forms blood
clots that assist in wound healing.

Calcium chloride was added to the gels to assist the conversion to fibrin by
providing calcium for the calcium binding/thrombin cleavage reaction (the
process by which fibrin is covalently cross-linked to become fibrinogen).

Lastly, ACA is is an antidote to fibrinolytic agents. Thus, ACA was added into
the gel mix and the growth media to prevent the fibrin gel from
lysing/degrading overtime.  
  
  

Figure 1 Bioartificial muscle constructs produced by Kaplan & Simsa et al.,
2019 in fibrin hydrogels using 3D printed anchor point inserts


Method


Brief summation:

We will prepare cell-laden and cell free fibrin gels with or without the
addition of conical inserts or anchor points inserts (added into the gels
before setting). Subsequently, we will observe the samples, to assess for cell
migration/alignment over 14 days. We will try to image cells in well using
light microscopy (transparent gels). However, if we cannot see the cells we
will stain the samples with CMFDA live cell tracker at progressive timpoints
throughout the study (non destructive sampling, i.e. we will keep cells in
culture after imaging). On day 14 in diff media we will measure the thickness
and width of the samples with digital calipers while still on the construct,
then remove samples from the inserts and weigh them. Lastly the samples will
be primary and secondary stained for MyoG and MF20 (and also DAPI stained) and
imaged.  
  
  
Samples  
  
n=3 of cell-laden samples on anchor point inserts  
n=3 cell laden samples on conical inserts

n=3 cell laden samples (no inserts)  
n=3 cell-free samples (no inserts)

= 9 cell laden samples

= 3 cell-free samples

12 samples total  
  
  
  
  
Note - if we had extra material we could test cell-free gels on conical
inserts and anchor points to see how the gels alone respond to the inserts
(i.e. to see if the morphology change is cell led or gel led). However, due to
the high cost of the fibrinogen and thrombin animal components this has not
been included in the study. The below experimental plan only accounts for the
prep of 12 samples.  
  
  
Cell requirement  
  
If we screen 9 cell-laden samples at 6x10^6 cells/sample this will require 54
x 10^6 cells total (58 x 10^6 cells with adjustment for error).  
  
Note - Please double check you have enough of all reagents before commencing
the experiment  
  
Note -  Serum media will be used in this experiment (D/F + 20% FBS +1X P/S)
for cell expansion and seeding, seeing as we are already using animal
components (fibrinogen and thrombin) and our harvests of ACF cells are
typically much lower than for serum.  
  
  
Experimental timeline and methods:

  

D-10 Culture cells

D-3 Sterilise inserts and trays (at least 4 anchorpoint inserts, 4 conical
inserts and 2 trays by autoclave)

D-1 or morning of D0 Locate and prepare stock reagents

Locate:

Fibrinogen, SIGMA-ALDRICH, Quantity 100mg, Code F3879 How much do we have
left? (stored at -20'C, freezer)  
Thrombin, SIGMA-ALDRICH, Quantity 1KU, Code T7326  (stored at -20'C, freezer)

Anhydrous CaCl2 granules (SIGMA) - Biomaterials shelf

6-Aminocaproic acid ACA  

Prepare:

100ml of proliferation media: DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1x P/S +p38i (with phenol
red)

130ml of differentiation media: E6 + 1x P/S (with phenol red) ~130ml for 1
week (make again on D6 diff)  

20mM CaCl2

In a 100ml bottle (autoclaved glass bottle or sterile plastic vessel) add
0.555g of CaCl2 granules into 50mL of pre-prepared proliferation media > stir
until dissolved > sterile filter

Note - Use a ethanol cleaned and dried or pre-autoclaved stir bar

Proliferation media with 1mg/ml ACA (OR could instead just make up
proliferation media then add fresh ACA on the day of use > filter, as I'm not
sure of stability)  

1) Add 50mg of ACA to 50ml of DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1X P/S + p38i  
2) Mix well and then sterile filter.  
3) Store in the fridge.  

E6 media with 1mg/ml ACA (note or add fresh ACA each time on the day of use
then filter, I'm not sure of stability)  

1) Add 130mg of ACA to 130ml of E6 + 1x P/S (prepared earlier), mix well and
then sterile filter.  
3) Store in the fridge.  

Ensure all reagents have been sterile filtered prior to use

Bovine concentrated plasma fibrinogen stock (8mg/ml)  

IMPORTANT NOTE READ ALL- The optimal way to solubilize fibrinogen is to layer
it on top of warm (37 ºC) saline, as fibrinogen will not dissolve in water.
The saline concentration can be in the range of 0.85-0.9%.  The fibrinogen-
saline solution can be gently agitated, but it must not be vortexed. The
fibrinogen will slowly dissolve to give a hazy solution. Fibrinogen may be
sterile-filtered, but may not go through a 0.1 μ filter. A 0.2 μ filter is
suggested, with positive pressure using a syringe and "button" filter.  Vacuum
filtration should not be used, since this will lead to breakdown of the
molecule during the filtration.

The Kaplan method asks for dilution in H2O, however, considering the above
advice from Sigma we will use PBS:

Sterile filter 4ml of PBS and warm to 37'C on the stir plate, try to dissolve
32mg total (8mg per ml) into the water, add very slowly while stirring (do not
vortex!), sterile filter using a 0.2 μ syringe filter.  (This is enough for 12
samples!)

Note - Use a ethanol cleaned and dried or pre-autoclaved stir bar

  

6-Aminocaproic acid ACA stock solution (20mg/ml)

Add 20mg of ACA into 1ml dH2O (sterile filtered MilliQ), mix well and sterile
filter

Note - if this is too small a volume to handle just make up 3x amount, for the
gel samples we should only need 504ul, at 42ul per sample.

  

Thrombin stock solution (10mg/ml)

Add 15mg of Thrombin into 1.5ml of dH2O (sterile filtered MilliQ), mix well
and sterile filter

Note - we should only need 1.08ml total (1080ul total, 90ul per sample, for 12
samples).  

  

  

D0 Harvest cells, seed gel, pipette gel onto/into inserts

Preparation of fibrin gel with cells:

Method based on the work by Kaplan & Simsa et al., 2019:

1\. Combine MuSCs at a minimum seeding density of 6 x 10^6 ** cells/well with
the prolif media + 20 mM CaCl2. (Also prepare n=3 cell free controls, i.e. add
media + 20mM CaCl2 only to 3 wells):

Prepare a cell/media suspension (proliferation media + 20mM CaCl2) containing
54 x 10^6 cells (6 x 10^6 cells/ml) in a volume of 3.7 mls (410ul x 9 cell-
laden samples)

Prepare 1.23 mls of just proliferation media + 20mM CaCl2 (410ul x 3 cell free
samples)  
  
**NOTE - Kaplan & Simsa seeded their fibrin gels at 3.5 × 10^6 cells/well (per
sample). However, a higher density within the gel could improve cell-cell
contact and the likelihood of fusion and so I would suggest 6x10^6 cells per
well. The alternative would be to screen multiple seeding densities, however,
due to the high cost of the animal proteins, and the time required to culture
this many cells perhaps it is best to pick one density for this first
experiment.  
  

2\. Add thrombin from bovine plasma (Sigma) with a total enzyme activity of
0.6 U into each well (for all 12 samples):

Add 90ul of the 10mg/ml stock thrombin solution per well (do this immediately
before the next step so the thrombin sol does not evaporate/ dry out)

Note - our thrombin has ≥60 NIH units/mg protein (biuret), from a search
online one "NIH" unit is equivalent to 1.1 U of thrombin, so we would need to
add in around 0.09 mg per well (our scales are not sensitive enough for this).
So we have made up a stock conc and will add a small amount of this per well.
We made up a stock conc of 10mg of thrombin/ml of H2O, then we add 90ul per
well = 0.6U per well.

3\. Add cell laden media mixture (or cell free media) to the wells with pre-
added thrombin

\- to 9 wells add 410ul of the cell/media suspension per well (cell-laden
samples)

\-  to 3 wells add 410ul of the media mix only (cell free samples)  
  

4\. Add the fibrinogen stock (8mg/ml) to the wells to make up a final
concentration of 3 mg/mL, so that each well has a total volume of 800 µL
(cell-reagent mix):

Add 300ul of the 8mg/ml fibronogen stock solution per well.  
  
5\. Mix the solution quickly in each well by pipetting up and down multiple
times.

6\. Add the fibrinolytic inhibitor aminocaproic acid (ACA) (Sigma), at a
concentration of 1 mg/mL to the cell-Fibrin mix, to prevent rapid hydrogel
degradation:

Add 42ul of the 20mg/ml stock ACA per well and mix.

7\. Place the anchor point inserts and conical inserts into the relevant wells
(n=3 cell-laden samples and n=3 cell-free samples will have no inserts)

Note - it is important that the inserts are added before the gels set!

  

8\. Incubate the plates for at least 30 min, at 37 °C, to initiate hydrogel
polymerization.

9\. After 30 minutes, add ~1.5 mL (or enough to fully immerse samples) of
prewarmed proliferation media (containing 1mg/ml ACA) to each well and return
plates to the incubator (37 °C, 5% CO2).

Note - add media gently to the side of the wells, so as not to detach gels
from inserts

D1 100% media change proliferation media D/F + 20% FBS + 1X P/S + 1mg/ml ACA +
p38i  

D1 Image samples under light microscopy - can you visualize the cells in the
gels?  
If not we take one sample from each condition and stain with sterile CMFDAand
image on the Axio (AF488) SEE GUIDE ON CMFDA STAINING HERE & SEE PREVIOUS
CMFDA PROTOCOL IN LA HERE. Monitor which samples have been CMFDA stained and
which haven't, either only ever stain one sample from each condition with
CMFDA throughout the experiment (the same sample throughout) or try to
distribute the CMFDA staining fairly between samples (n=3). CMFDA should not
kill the cells but the extra time handling and out of cell culture conditions
could effect cell survival.  

D0 Diff 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D1 Diff 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D2 Diff 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA  
  
D3 Diff 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA then Image samples under light
microscopy - can you visualize the cells in the gels?  
If not we take one sample from each condition and stain with sterile CMFDAand
image on the Axio (AF488) SEE GUIDE ON CMFDA STAINING HERE & SEE PREVIOUS
CMFDA PROTOCOL IN LA HERE. Monitor which samples have been CMFDA stained and
which haven't, either only ever stain one sample from each condition with
CMFDA throughout the experiment (the same sample throughout) or try to
distribute the CMFDA staining fairly between samples (n=3). CMFDA should not
kill the cells but the extra time handling and out of cell culture conditions
could effect cell survival.  

D4 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D5 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA > Image samples under light microscopy

D6 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA  

D6 Image samples under light microscopy - can you visualize the cells in the
gels? (D6 NOT D7 TO AVOID WEEKEND SAMPLING ONLY)  

If not we take one sample from each condition and stain with sterile CMFDAand
image on the Axio (AF488) SEE GUIDE ON CMFDA STAINING HERE & SEE PREVIOUS
CMFDA PROTOCOL IN LA HERE. Monitor which samples have been CMFDA stained and
which haven't, either only ever stain one sample from each condition with
CMFDA throughout the experiment (the same sample throughout) or try to
distribute the CMFDA staining fairly between samples (n=3). CMFDA should not
kill the cells but the extra time handling and out of cell culture conditions
could effect cell survival.  

D7 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D8 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D9 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D10 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D10 Image samples under light microscopy - can you visualize the cells in the
gels?

If not we take one sample from each condition and stain with sterile CMFDA and
image on the Axio (AF488) SEE GUIDE ON CMFDA STAINING HERE & SEE PREVIOUS
CMFDA PROTOCOL IN LA HERE. Monitor which samples have been CMFDA stained and
which haven't, either only ever stain one sample from each condition with
CMFDA throughout the experiment (the same sample throughout) or try to
distribute the CMFDA staining fairly between samples (n=3). CMFDA should not
kill the cells but the extra time handling and out of cell culture conditions
could effect cell survival.  

D11 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D12 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA > Image samples under light microscopy  

D13 100% media change (E6) + 1mg/ml ACA

D14 Measure thickness and width of samples with digital calipers while still
on the construct. Remove samples with forceps from anchor-point construct for
analysis and weigh on a standard lab balance.

D10/14 Primary antibody staining (MyoG, MF20)

Secondary antibody staining and DAPI (MyoG, MF20)

Image samples

Analysis

Write report

Have report reviewed

Incorporate suggested changes to report

Update Header Page

  

Clubhouse link:

https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/21761/dolly12-cells-in-fibrin-gels-
cultured-on-conical-inserts-anchor-
points?cf_workflow=500000005&ct_workflow=all

  

  




Original seeding plan:

0) Locate all reagents and stock solutions and have them ready for use (see
previous entry for exact locations, allow reagents from the fridge to reach
room temperature before adding so as not to add cold solutions to your cells,
but do not leave fibrinogen or thrombin out on the bench for > ~1hr):

\- Proliferation media + ACA (fridge)  
\- 20mM CaCl2 in Proliferation media (fridge)  
\- Bovine concentrated plasma fibrinogen stock (8mg/ml) (fridge)  
\- ACA stock solution (room temp)  
\- Thrombin stock solution (10mg/ml) (fridge)

  

Preparation of fibrin gel with cells:

Method based on the work by Kaplan & Simsa et al., 2019:

Combine MuSCs at a minimum seeding density of 6 x 10^6 ** cells/well with the
prolif media + 20 mM CaCl2. (Also prepare n=3 cell free controls, i.e. add
media + 20mM CaCl2 only to 3 wells):

METHOD:

1) Pre-warm CaCl2 + Proliferation media mix in the water bath at 37'c for at
least 15min before use  timestamp - timestamp

2) Resuspend 54 x 10^6 cells (6 x 10^6 cells/ml) in 3.7 mls of CaCl2 +
Proliferation media (410ul x 9 cell-laden samples)

3) Prepare 1.23 mls of just proliferation media + 20mM CaCl2 (410ul x 3 cell
free samples)  
  
**NOTE - Kaplan & Simsa seeded their fibrin gels at 3.5 × 10^6 cells/well (per
sample). However, a higher density within the gel could improve cell-cell
contact and the likelihood of fusion and so I would suggest 6x10^6 cells per
well. The alternative would be to screen multiple seeding densities, however,
due to the high cost of the animal proteins, and the time required to culture
this many cells perhaps it is best to pick one density for this first
experiment.  
  

Add thrombin from bovine plasma (Sigma) with a total enzyme activity of 0.6 U
into each well (for all 12 samples):

4) Add 90ul of the 10mg/ml stock thrombin solution to all 12 wells (do this
immediately before the next step so the thrombin sol does not evaporate/ dry
out)  timestamp

  

Note - our thrombin has ≥60 NIH units/mg protein (biuret), from a search
online one "NIH" unit is equivalent to 1.1 U of thrombin, so we would need to
add in around 0.09 mg per well (our scales are not sensitive enough for this).
So we have made up a stock conc and will add a small amount of this per well.
We made up a stock conc of 10mg of thrombin/ml of H2O, then we add 90ul per
well = 0.6U per well.

4) Add cell laden media CaCl2 mixture (or cell free CaCl2 media) to the
relevant wells (see above plate map) with pre-added thrombin

\- to 9 wells add 410ul of the cell/media suspension per well (A1-A3, B1-B3,
C1-C3 cell-laden samples) timestamp  

\-  to 3 wells add 410ul of the media mix only (D1-D3 cell free samples)
timestamp  
  

Add the fibrinogen stock (8mg/ml) to the wells to make up a final
concentration of 3 mg/mL, so that each well has a total volume of 800 µL
(cell-reagent mix):

5) Add 300ul of the 8mg/ml fibronogen stock solution per well timestamp

6) Mix the solution quickly in each well by pipetting up and down multiple
times.

Add the fibrinolytic inhibitor aminocaproic acid (ACA) (Sigma), at a
concentration of 1 mg/mL to the cell-Fibrin mix, to prevent rapid hydrogel
degradation:

7) Add 42ul of the 20mg/ml stock ACA per well and mix timestamp

8) Place the anchor point inserts and conical inserts into the relevant wells
(n=3 cell-laden samples and n=3 cell-free samples will have no inserts)
timestamp

Note - it is important that the inserts are added before the gels set!

  

9) Incubate the plates for at least 30 min, at 37 °C, to initiate hydrogel
polymerization. timestamp-timestamp

10) After 30 minutes, add ~1.5 mL (or enough to fully immerse samples) of
prewarmed proliferation media (containing 1mg/ml ACA) to each well and return
plates to the incubator (37 °C, 5% CO2).  timestamp

Note - add media gently to the side of the wells, so as not to detach gels
from inserts


UPDATE


The experimental plan has since been updated!  
  
The new experimental plan requires half the cell requirement (27 x 10^6) and
now includes n=4 of all cell-laden samples, instead of n=3. Please refer to
the following lab book entry to see the new seeding plan:

  
https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MzkwMC4wfDEwNjMxNy8zMDAwLTIyNjcxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzM2NTk3NTE4NDB8OTkwMC4w


