

Performed by: Bonnie, Lily, Adrian




Background

We have recently had difficulty performing cell counts on suspension cultures.
This is due to a high amount of debris present, as well as due to an apparent
change in cell morphology in suspension cultures. We have not been able to
differentiate between live and dead cells as well as between cells and debris.
This has compromised the accuracy of our count data as it is highly open to
interpretation and counts are likely to vary depending on the user. To
determine how variable counts are between scientists, Bonnie, Lily and Adrian
performed a count using the same haemocytometer loaded with trypan blue
stained suspension cells.




Process

Cells from suspension adaption trial #4 were used for the count, Culture ID:
7218. Lab book entry for culture can be seen here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjYwOS4xfDEwNjMxNy8yMDA3LTE0MTgyL1RyZWVOb2RlLzU1NDQxNjk4Mnw2NjIzLjA5OTk5OTk5OTk5OQ==.

  

1\. Placed 10 mL  mL of  RGD media (see suspension culutre lab book for
details) into the water bath   14:00  

2\. Placed shake tube in centrifuge and centrifuge at 300 x g for 5 min at RT.
14:05  

3\. Aspirated supernatant from pellet.

4\. Added 1mL of  media to tube and used a P1000 pipette to break up cell
clumps.

5\. 20uL of culture taken for viability check.

6\. 10uL of the sample added to 40uL trypan blue.

7\. 10uL of trypan blue/ cell suspension mix loaded into haemocytometer to
perform count.

9\. Remaining 9mL of media was added afterwards and triturated with 10mL
serological pipette to break up cell clumps for each culture further and
resuspend cells evenly.

10\. Returned 4 x vessel to incubate at:  14:15 Shaking at 206 RPM

  * [X ]  37ÂºC, 5% CO2 (mammalian cells)
  * Incubator (#67 ), Lab [Library]

8\. Bonnie, Lily and then Adrian performed counts on the same 5 squares of the
haemocytometer.




Observations

  * There was a great deal of variability in size and morphology of cells, which was unlike that typically seen in Trypilised adherent cells. 
  * Almost all cells were stained blue (which suggest compromised cellular membranes and therefore dead cells), despite many having a halo and a well rounded appearance (typical of live cells). 
  * Both live and dead cell counts varied greatly between scientists, despite counting exactly the same squares on the haemocytometer.  
Total live cell count varied from 180K to 530K  
Total dead cell count varied from 410K to 790K




Conclusions  

Due to the unusual staining and morphology of these cells, none of the
scientists felt confident in their own assessment of which cells were alive
and which were dead. There was a high degree of variability between scientists
counts of both live and dead cells. This suggests that trypan blue staining
alone is not adequate for the differentiation of live and dead cells in
suspension culture. Alternative live/dead staining such as Hoechst/propidium
iodine, calcein/propidium iodine or other methods need to be developed in
order to ensure more reliable suspension cell count data.




Count data

Square 1BTLLAK  
LIVE71013  
DEAD21135  
Square 2BTLLAK  
LIVE1355  
DEAD2068  
Square 3BTLLAK  
LIVE865  
DEAD8118  
Square 4BTLLAK  
LIVE14102  
DEAD191010  
Square 5BTLLAK  
LIVE11102  
DEAD11710  
TotalBTLLAK  
LIVE530,000380,000180,000  
DEAD790,000470,000410,000  
  
Square/count 1, Image taken at 10x magnification  



Square/count 2, Image taken at 10x magnification  
  

Square/count 3, Image taken at 10x magnification  

Square/count 4, Image taken at 10x magnification  
  

Square/count 5, Image taken at 10x magnification  
  

  

  

  



  

  


