

## Performed by: Bonnie Tangey




Growth Media

M199 Media+ 15% FBS + 1X P/S + 20ng/ml EGF




Media/Reagents used:

  

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
dPBS (for washing & neutralising) 5616  
Growth Media 6100  
  
  

  




Process:

1.To prepare for sample collection, the foot of a crocodile hindlimb was
cleaned by blotting the the scales with iodine using a sterile gauze and
allowed to sit for a few minutes.

2\.  The limb was then sprayed with ethanol and blotted dry with sterile
gauze.

3\. Iodine and ethanol cleaning (steps 1 + 2) were repeated.

4\. Using a scalpel and sterile forceps, a piece of skin (with scales
attached), approx. 3 cm2 in size was removed from the centre of the upper side
of the foot. Note: It was not possible to remove the skin without the scales
due to the skin being fairly thin and the scales being very well attached.
There was also a small amount of adipose tissue attached to the sample.

5\. Skin and scale sample was placed into a 50mL falcon tube containing 20ml
of iodine, this sample was then placed in the fridge from approximately 1 hour
prior to plating.

6\. Sample removed from refrigerated iodine and washed 3x with PBS by serially
transferring sample to 3x 50ml falcon tubes (pre-filled with PBS)

7\. 6mL aliquot of crocodile growth media (M199 +15% +20ng/ml EGF + FBS +1x
p/s) placed in water bath (at 28 degrees Celsius)

8\. Sample transferred to a petri dish with 1mL of PBS to stop the sample from
drying out.

9\. With a scalpel and sterile forceps, the sample was cut into small pieces
of approximately 0.5cm2.

10\. 1mL of pre-warmed crocodile growth media (M199 +15% +20ng/ml EGF + FBS
+1x p/s) added to each well of a 6 well plate.

11\. Sample pieces moved to the 6 well plate (3-4 pieces per well), with the
scales facing up to allow contact of the dermis with the base of the culture
vessel.

12\. Paraffined the plate and placed in the incubator set to 28 degrees
Celsius with no CO2.




Observations/Summary:

It was not possible to remove the skin without the scales due to the skin
being fairly thin and the scales being very well attached- This may compromise
sterility.

There was also a small amount of adipose tissue attached to the sample.




Relevant Images/Figures (if applicable): N/A

  





