

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE: https://hooks-
cal.clubhouse.io/hooks/v1/5f42e8b1-d297-47c5-97d1-5692a3220b09/60e7f41e-4eb5-4102-96b9-78d2065a4c56/calendars/epics/23083

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recycYeTNXOK69Wwv?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE:  Extra, Non-KR

AIM/PURPOSE: The overarching goal is to expand the Vows existing cell library
to include a broader range of species. Here, we aim to isolate a plastic
adherent population of cells from crocodile muscle tissue (which we will refer
to as CHOMP cells). These cells will then be expanded to form a master cell
bank (MCB) and working cell bank (WCB). We were unsuccessful in our previous
attempt to isolate CHOMP cells (see here:https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MzU3MS4xfDEwNjMxNy8yNzQ3LTIwNTg3L1RyZWVOb2RlLzEwMTMzODUwNjJ8OTA2NS4x).
For this reason, a number of different isolation as well as culture conditions
will be trialled.  

HYPOTHESES:

  1. A plastic adherent population of cells can be established by digesting crocodile muscle tissue with collagenase + dispase at 30°C.
  2. A plastic adherent population of cells can be established by digesting crocodile muscle tissue with collagenase and dispase at 37°C. 
  3. A plastic adherent population of cells can be established by digesting crocodile muscle tissue with trypsin at 30°C.
  4. A plastic adherent population of cells can be established as an outgrowth culture from macerated muscle tissue.
  5. Plastic adherent CHOMP cells will show a greater rate of proliferation when cultured at 30°C compared to at 37°C. 
  6. Plastic adherent CHOMP cells will show a greater rate of proliferation when cultured in DMEM/F12 based media compared to those cultures in M199 based media.
  7. The plastic adherent population of CHOMP cells can be expanded to a MCB of >10M cells

RESULTS SUMMARY:

  1. The hypothesis was supported: Plastic adherent populations of cells were established by digesting crocodile muscle tissue with collagenase + dispase at 30°C.
  2. The hypothesis was supported: Plastic adherent populations of cells were established by digesting crocodile muscle tissue with collagenase and dispase at 37°C. 
  3. The hypothesis was supported: Plastic adherent populations of cells were established by digesting crocodile muscle tissue with trypsin at 30°C.
  4. The hypothesis was not supported: Were were unable to establish a plastic adherent population of cells from outgrowth culture of macerated muscle tissue.
  5. The hypothesis was supported: Plastic adherent CHOMP cells showed a greater rate of proliferation when cultured at 30°C compared to at 37°C. 
  6. The hypothesis was supported: Plastic adherent CHOMP cells will showed a greater rate of proliferation when cultured in DMEM/F12 based media compared to those cultures in M199 based media.
  7. The hypothesis was supported: 2 Cell lines, CHOMP07 and CHOMP9 were expanded to MCBs. 

CONCLUSIONS:  
Our 2 best performing CHOMP (most proliferative) cell lines were carried
through to MCB stage. These were our CHOMP07 line, which was originally
digested with trypsin at 30°C  and cultured in DMEM/F12 based media at 30°C,
and our CHOMP09 line which was digested with collagenase + dispase and
cultured in DMEM/F12 based media at 30°C. For CHOMP07, we banked a MCB of
12.5M cells. For our CHOMP09, we banked an MCB of 13M cells.

NEXT STEPS:  
CHOMP07 and CHOMP09 MCBs will now need to be expanded to form WCBs. For
Productions purposes over the coming quarter, they have requested a minimum
WCB of 300M CHOMP cells.

We successfully generated CHOMP MCBs using 2 different cell isolation
protocols. At this stage, it is not clear which cells are performing the best
in terms of their proliferation rates, as their mean doubling times were
similar. In future, a proliferation assay should be performed to compare the
performance of the 2 cell lines, and to determine which isolation protocol
should be perused in future.

Here we found that CHOMP cells took a long time (up to 8 days) to adhere to
culture plastic, and that adherent cell populations could be established from
tissue digested with collagenase + dispase at 37°C. It is therefore possible
that the cells isolated from our initial CHOMP biopsy (see lab book here:
https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MzU2NS45fDEwNjMxNy8yNzQzLTIwNTc0L1RyZWVOb2RlLzE1ODg4OTMwNzN8OTA1MS45)
are viable but that they were not cultured for long enough to adhere to the
plastic during the initial thaw (see lab book here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MzYyNy4wfDEwNjMxNy8yNzkwLTIwODg1L1RyZWVOb2RlLzM0MjMxMTgwNjJ8OTIwNy4w).
These cells were also initially cultured in M199 based media, which we now
know is not optimal for CHOMP cells. We will therefore trial thawing more
CHOMP01-05 isolate, and culturing at 30°C in DMEM/F12 based media to assess
viability and proliferative capacity.  
  
The development of effective outgrowth culture methods would allow us to
diversify our cell banks to include dermal fibroblasts, in addition to our
muscle derived fibroblast cells. As our outgrowth cultures were not
successful, they should be re-attempted when biopsies are next collected.

  


