

Animal Source

The limbs of a male Salt Water Crocodile limbs have been sourced from Koorana
Crocodile Farm, 65 Savages Rd, Coowonga QLD 4702 and will be transported to
the Vowse in a chilled Esky. If the meat is sent with a temperature data
logger, this data will be uploaded to the biopsy collection lab book on the
day of the biopsy.




Background

In our previous attempt, we had limited success isolating and culturing cells
from our first crocodile biopsies.  See lab book here:https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MzU3MS4xfDEwNjMxNy8yNzQ3LTIwNTg3L1RyZWVOb2RlLzEwMTMzODUwNjJ8OTA2NS4x.
This may be partially due to our isolation process which was performed at 37
degrees Celsius. Reptile cells generally require lower culture temperatures
than mammalian cells, with an approximate correlation between the species
natural climate and the optimal culturing temperature [1, 2]. That said, some
reptilian cells have been successfully isolated and cultured at 37 degrees,
suggesting that increased temperatures do not necessarily result in reptilian
cell  death in all cases [3, 4]. It is probable that the process we used for
our first crocodile biopsy and isolation was not ideally suited for reptilian
cells.  Initially we followed a protocol that closely mimicked the one used
previously at Vow for the establishment of our mammalian cell lines. In this
method, 750U/mL Collagenase II solution as well as a 11U/mL dispase digestion
step are used to disassociate cells from tissue. Briefly, biopsies cut into
small pieces and fat and connective tissue are removed. Collagenase solution
is then added for 10min at RT. Tissue sections are then minced and transferred
to fresh collagenase solution and incubated 36 degrees with agitation for 1hr.
After washing with cold media, samples are centrifuged, and supernatant is
aspirated down to 2mL.  Collagenase + Dispase solution is then added, and
samples are incubated for a further 30min. Samples are washed and centrifuged
and the bulk of the supernatant is removed. The cell mixture is then passed
through a 40um cell strainer. Raw isolates are then immediately frozen without
a plating or culture step.

In order to ascertain if alternative methods may be more suitable for the
establishment of crocodile fibroblasts culture, a literature search was
performed. 2 studies were found describing crocodile cell isolation protocols
[1, 5]. If we look to other reptilian species, further examples of isolations
can be found. A number of methods have been outlined in the tables below.  In
summary, there are a number of papers that used outgrowth methods [1, 4,
6-8,11] as well as some digested sample approaches [2, 3, 5, 9]. Of the
studies using digestion methods, there was a paper using a 0.06% trypsin
solution (0.12% added to a equal volume of un-supplemented media) and
incubated for 10 minutes at room temperature to disassociate cells [5]. A
study collecting fibropapilloma cells from adult green turtles used a similar
method to this but incubated the biopsies for longer (1 hr in total) [10]. A
different paper using green turtle fibroblasts digested their samples in
300-600U collagenase II with dissociated cells being periodically removed
until tissue was completely digested (up to 24hours) although this method
yielded mixed results [2].  Digestion of turtle ovarian cells using a
combination of trypsin and collagenase I has also been described [9] and glial
cells have been isolated from adult gecko brain using 0.25% collagenase for
just 15 minutes [3].

Key Points

  * The freezing of samples immediately after isolation allows us to retain raw isolate for future expansion however culturing cells prior to their initial freeze may provide cells with a better less disruptive start. All the studies mentioned here have plated and cultured cell directly post isolation.
  * For Vows purposes, digested protocols are most likely more suitable than outgrowths as they allow for a higher proportion of cells within the tissue to be extracted, we will therefore prioritise these protocols for our own use.
  * While none of the studies listed below included a dispase digestion step, it may still be worth including as an option in our isolation process. Dispase is generally considered to be gentler than trypsin and may therefore aid cell survival.
  * We may want to try a few methods of isolation, perhaps with longer trypsin digestion, collagenase digestion or with a combination of trypsin and collagenase. 
  * With the exception of one paper [5], all the papers used a MEM or DMEM/F12 base media. This indicates that the specialised M199  used in our previous crocodile isolation may not be required for culture of reptilian cells. 
  * While it's not ideal to culture crocodile cells at 37 degrees, a couple of these studies did do their initial isolations at 37 degrees [3, 4]- so perhaps it's not necessarily as deadly as you would think, and our original isolates are potentially salvageable.



Species

Tissue  

Procedure

Method/Notes

Ref  
  
Several including crocodile, various snakes, lizards and turtles

Viscera

Outgrowth

Tissue washed with Ringer's solution, minced, and suspended in Eagles Basal
Medium + 10% FBS + p/s. Flasks were incubated at 23, 30 or 36 degrees.

 The authors found 30 degrees to be the most effective temperature, with an
approximate correlation between the temperature of the natural habitat of the
species and the optimal culture temperature.

[1]  
  
Rough Tailed Gecko

Tail tip

Outgrowth

5mm of tail tip used from and adult wild animal. Sample transferred to DMEM
and cut into 1-2mm pieces. The pieces were then seeded in a culture dish and
covered with a cover slip. Cells were cultured in DMEM + 20% FBS + p/s. They
were incubated at 5% CO2 at 37 degrees for 2 weeks before being transitioned
to a L-15 medium and lower temperatures.

[4]  
  
Australian Dragon Lizard

Tail and toe.

Outgrowth

3-10mm samples taken from the ends of tails and toes and transferred straight
to DMEM + Kanamyicn, chloramphenicol, pen/strep and incubated at room
temperature (25 degrees) for 12-24hrs. Samples were then washed with PBS and
minced. Culture flasks were scratched with blade to aid adherence. Minced
tissue was transferred to culture dish and left to dry with the lid off for
30-60 min. Fresh media was then added for continued culture.

[6]  
  
Chinese Soft-Shell Turtle

Heart and mesentery

Outgrowth

Samples taken from adult animals and macerated and cultured in MEM + 15% FBS +
42ug/ml L-serine, 100ug/l sodium pyruvate, 30 ug/ml kanamycin and antibiotic
antimycotic. Cells were incubated at 26 degrees with 5% CO2.

[7]  
  
Loggerhead Sea Turtle

Dermal

Outgrowth

3mm x 3mm biopsies were taken and cultured directly into media containing
either DMEM/F12, DMEM, Hams F12, RPMI each with the addition of 10% FCS and 1x
antibiotics.  
 Interestingly, they collagen coated their culture vessels. The researchers
found that biopsies cultured in DMEM/F12 had the best cell yield. They were
unable to culture Loggerhead Sea Turtle cells in RPMI based media which was in
direct contrast to the conditions the same researchers used to isolate cells
from the Hawksbury Sea Turtle. This shows that preferred media may vary
between species.

[8]  
  
Hawaiian Green Turtle

Heart, liver, muscle

Outgrowth

Samples were washed 3x with DMEM + Antibiotics. They were then macerated and
transferred to culture flasks (without media). After 3-4 hours, DMEM+ 20% FBS
+ 1x P/S was added. Cells were cultured at 33 degrees C and 5% CO2.

[11]  
  
Chinese Soft-Shell Turtle

Ovaries

Digestion

Juveniles aged 1-2 years. Ovary tissue was digested in 1mg/ml collagenase I +
0.25% trypsin (time not specified). Cell suspension filtered through 40um cell
strainer, centrifuged at 300xg for 10 min at 10 degrees and then resuspended
in DMEM + 15% FBS + p/s +bFGF + 1x NEAA + 2nM sodium selenite, 0.8mM sodium
pyruvate, 2nM glutamine, seabass serum, and medaka fish embryo extracts. Cells
were cultured in 0.2% gelatin coated culture vessels

[9]  
  
Gecko

Olfactory bulb

Digestion

Glial cell cultures. Biopsies taken from the olfactory bulbs and washed
repeatedly with HBSS. Tissue macerated and then incubated with 0.25%
collagenase solution (collagenase type unspecified, other component of
collagenase solution not specified) for 15 minutes at 37 degrees C with 5 %
CO2. Samples then disrupted with 20G syringe needle and centrifuged at 300G
for 2min. Pellets washed in HBSS and re-centrifuged. Finally, pellets were
resuspended in DMEM/F12 +5% FBS + 5% reptile serum + P/S/amphotericin b. Cells
maintained at 37 degrees with 5% CO2.

[3]  
  
Green Turtle

Fibropapilloma and healthy skin

Digestion

3 wild turtles were used + 11 with transmissible agent that causes fibro
papilloma. 6mm punch biopsies were taken, minced and washed with HBSS. Then
transferred to HBSS with 300-600U collagenase II and incubated at 30 degrees.
Disassociated cells harvested at intervals by pipetting the solution into ice
fold DMEM/F12 +10% FBS. Cells were centrifuged at 400xg for 10 min at 4
degrees and resuspended in DMEM/F12 +10% FBS. Digestion ran for 12-24hrs.
Cells were then pooled and seeded into plastic culture dishes at 100,000
cells/ml and incubated at 30 degrees and 5% CO2 in DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + p/s.  

[2]  
  
Green Turtle

Fibropapilloma

Digestion

Paper is light on detail but the authors minced the biopsied tissue and then
incubated flasks with a trypsin-EDTA solution in PBS (concentration not
specified), while stirring with a magnetic rod. The supernatant was collected
3x at 20 min intervals then centrifuged at a low speed (speed not specified).
Pellet resuspended and seeded in MEM +10% FBS + antibiotics/fungicides. They
mentioned that cell attachment was slow but improved after the first passage.

[10]  
  
Crocodile

Viscera

Digestion

Segments of viscera placed into tissue culture media for 2 hours. Tissue then
removed and finely macerated. The mince was then suspended in M199 medium
before adding an equal volume of 0.12% trypsin solution and incubating for 10
minutes. The solution was then filtered through a cell strainer and then
transferred to culture dishes.  
 Culture Media: M199 Media supplemented with 15% FBS, 20ng/mL EGF and
antibiotics, 28 degrees Celsius (CO2 not specified).

[5]  
  


References

1\.            Clark, H.F., et al., Characterization of reptilian cell lines
established at incubation temperatures of 23 to 36. 1970\. 133(3): p.
1039-1047.

2\.            Herbst, L.H., et al., Tumorigenicity of green turtle
fibropapilloma-derived fibroblast lines in immunodeficient mice. 1998\. 48(2):
p. 162-167.

3\.            Grzesiak, J., et al., Morphological characterization of gecko's
(Eublepharis macularius) glial cells in culture. 2013\. 31(3): p. 826-831.

4\.            Moghanjoghi, S.M., et al., Establishment and characterization
of rough-tailed gecko original tail cells. 2018\. 70(5): p. 1337-1347.

5\.            Hyndman, T.H., et al., Molecular identification of three novel
herpesviruses found in Australian farmed saltwater crocodiles (Crocodylus
porosus) and Australian captive freshwater crocodiles (Crocodylus johnstoni).
2015\. 181(3-4): p. 183-189.

6\.            Ezaz, T., et al., A simple non-invasive protocol to establish
primary cell lines from tail and toe explants for cytogenetic studies in
Australian dragon lizards (Squamata: Agamidae). 2008\. 58(3): p. 135-139.

7\.            Kawai, A., et al., Different origins of bird and reptile sex
chromosomes inferred from comparative mapping of chicken Z-linked genes.
2007\. 117(1-4): p. 92-102.

8\.            Fukuda, T., et al., Expression of human mutant cyclin dependent
kinase 4, Cyclin D and telomerase extends the life span but does not
immortalize fibroblasts derived from loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta).
2018\. 8(1): p. 1-15.

9\.            Xu, H., et al., Isolation and in vitro culture of ovarian stem
cells in Chinese soft‐shell turtle (Pelodiscus sinensis). 2018\. 119(9): p.
7667-7677.

10\.         Mansell, J.L., et al., Initiation and ultrastructure of a
reptilian fibroblast cell line obtained from cutaneous fibropapillomas of the
green turtle, Chelonia mydas. 1989\. 25(11): p. 1062-1064.

11\.         Work, T.M., et al., In vitro replication of chelonid herpesvirus
5 in organotypic skin cultures from Hawaiian green turtles (Chelonia mydas).
2017\. 91(17): p. e00404-17.









