

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/24412/exploration-hanging-drop-cell-
culture?cf_workflow=500000005&ct_workflow=all

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwqEYUeUXiOogFYw/rec2cKNlIjwD6zOp7?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE:  KR2

AIM/PURPOSE: To assess the feasibility of using hanging drop cell culture for
growing cells in suspension.

HYPOTHESIS: Cells will grow in suspension, but will form aggregates quickly.

RESULTS SUMMARY: The hypothesis was not entirely supported in this experiment;
while cells did form aggregates, they did not proliferate in suspension.

Cells were successfully seeded into hanging drops, however they did not
survive the passage into suspension culture. The reason for this cell death is
unclear, but likely due to the very low seeding density in 5 mL medium and
significant cell clumping.

A 1% agarose solution coating did prevent cell adhesion to to plasticware, but
degraded in cell culture conditions (37'C, 5%CO2). Supplementing medium with
0.1% poloxamer 407 did not prevent cells from adhering to plasticware.

CONCLUSIONS:

Seeding cells into hanging drops does not appear to be fit for our purpose of
adapting cells to suspension due to their propensity to form clusters, likely
resulting in cell death. Coating culture flasks with 1% agaorse and adding
0.1% poloxamer to growth medium were unsuccessful at enabling cells to grow in
static suspension.

NEXT STEPS:

Different concentrations of poloxamer and agarose could be tested in the
future if we want to re-examine static suspension adaptation. For example,
Friedrich et al (2009) successfully used a 1.5% (w/v) concentration of Agarose
to coat plates. We could also try passaging fibroblasts into a freshly-coated
flask before the agarose separates from the plasticware, until the cells are
adapted to growing in suspension.

Overall, hanging drops do not appear to be an appropriate method for adapting
cells to suspension culture. In each iteration, we have observed significant
cell clumping unless droplets are seeded at very low densities (25,000 and
12,500 cells/mL). Given that medium changes cannot be performed on the
droplets, they need to be passaged within 48H into a higher-volume suspension
culture. In order to achieve our desired seeding densities of ~1M cells/mL, we
would therefore require more than 120 droplets to seed our lowest volume
suspension vessel (deep-well plates - 3M cells), especially when accounting
for the high rate of cell death seen within the first 24H of seeding into
suspension culture. This is very time-consuming, and given the lack of success
seen so far, I would not recommend this method for suspension adaptation.


