

Background




A population of cells in suspension was identified in the CHOMP biopsy.

At Vow, we are currently trying to adapt cells to grow in suspension culture
by a variety of media and cell-line related means. See KR2 in the Pool-Party-
Project of Q3 for more details on our ongoing attempts. However, we have been
largely unsuccessful. This is disappointing given how critical it is to
achieve suspension culture adaptation for scale-up manufacturing.

Simultaneous to adapting cells to suspension, we have been attempting to
isolate crocodile fibroblasts for use in our first product. Crocodile
fibroblasts were isolated from a muscle biopsy using a collagenase digestion
at 30 degrees C. Cells were cultured in DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS at 30 degrees C.
Interestingly, the cells did not adhere to the plastic tissue culture flask
quickly the way we have come to expect with our mammalian and avian cells and
instead remained in suspension for several days. When the cells did adhere,
the cells appear fibroblastic in morphology and appear to be proliferating
well.  
  
In addition to this population of fibroblastic adhered cells, a population of
cells in suspension remain in the supernatant. It does not appear that these
cells are adhering or will adhere in the future. The impression of the
scientists culturing these cells is that the cells in the supernatant are
proliferating, though that will be confirmed in this experiment. We would like
to investigate these cells further in order to determine what type of cells
they are, and whether their capability to grow and survive in suspension could
prove useful to Vow.  
  
The identify of these suspension cells is currently unclear, but they resemble
reptile red blood cells.

Although the identity of these cells in suspension is currently unclear, these
cells resemble red blood cells with respect to size and shape. Mammalian red
blood cells lack most cell organelles or nuclei. However, reptiles, fish and
birds are oval-shaped, in part due to the presence of a nuclei. The
biophysical properties of red blood cells are intimately linked to their
function, in that these cells must squeeze into tiny microvasculature beds in
order to transport oxygen [1]. Humans have a RBC that is shaped appropriately
to squeeze through tiny blood vessels, while the avian RBC contains a nuclei
and is less able to squeeze through tiny vessels. However, the vascular system
of a bird consists of vessels with a wider diameter than that found in humans
[2]. Thus, it appears likely that shape and size of red blood cells are
related to animal anatomy and energy needs. Compare the images of reptile
blood at [1] to the images of our CHOMP suspension cells taken via MIA
capture: https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recTouUy4KqtlSvB3/images.

 Mammalian red blood cells conventionally can not be cultured, but reptile
RBCs may proliferate.

Immature RBCs, also known as erythrocytes, are occasionally seen in the
peripheral blood of reptiles, especially young animals. Immature erythrocytes
are round to irregular cells with large round nuclei and basophilic cytoplasm.
Conversely, mature RBCs isolated from snakes (also a reptile), were found to
have basophilic (purple) nuclei and eosonophilic (light pink) cytoplasms via
Leishman's stain. These RBCs were also oval or ellipical cells with oval or
irregular nuclei. At times, spherical RBCs were observed.  This phenotype
could be confirmed by staining at the Vow lab; Leishman's stain is often used
to assess blood smears [4]. Many great images of blood cells from reptiles
stained with Giemsa-Wright stain can also be found here:
https://veteriankey.com/clinical-pathology-2/  
  
In addition, mitotic activity associated with reptilian red blood cells is
common provided the animal is healthy [3]. This is in direct contrast to
mammalian red blood cells. Erythropoiesis is the process of red blood cell
development; in mammalian red blood cells this occurs ostly in the bone
marrow. Mature RBCs are generated from multi-potent hematopoietic stem cells
through a complex maturation process involving several morphological changes
to produce a highly functional, specialised cell. The terminal step of
mammalian erythropoiesis involves expulsion of the nucleus, elimination of
organelles and ribosomes, and remodelling of the plasma membrane. This entire
process occurs in the bone marrow before the cells enter the blood stream [5].
Ex-vivo solutions for generating mammalian blood cells from hematopoeitic
progenitor cells are of great interest given how useful they could be in
eliminating the need for blood donors. However, systems currently being
explored require progenitor cells isolated from bone marrow cord blood rather
than peripheral blood where mature RBCs can be found [6].

  

Additional learnings about reptile RBCs.

RBC life span varies across species, where in humans the cellular half-life is
~120 days. Conversely, the half-life of an RBC is about 40, 600-800, 300-1400,
and 80-500 in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish respectively. Thus,
reptilian red blood cells may survive much longer than we would expect a
mammalian red blood cell to. In addition, reptile RBCs are thought to be more
likely  to be invaded by a wide range of parasites than other species' RBCs.
In this study, protozoan, prokaryotes, and viral parasites were assessed and
found in reptile RBCs at higher rates than other species [7]. In addition,
reptilian red blood cells have been show to have much shorter telomeres than
other reptilian cell types [8]. This suggests RBCs might not be prone to
undergoing excessive amounts of proliferation and indeed there is very little
in the literature around RBC mitosis in reptilian RBCs; the consensus seems to
be that it does happen but not particularly regularly. Indeed, given the RBC
life span of 600-800 days, slow mitosis might not even be noticed in many
laboratory studies.

Considerable variation among RBCs from reptiles may also exist; one paper
reports blood cell counts and morphology vary greatly among the more than 8000
species of reptiles described, even among species within the same genus.
Changes in reptile red blood cell morphology are also associated with disease;
this may be hard for us to assess at Vow given that we typically only look at
one reptile at a time [9].

  

In closing, we should perform some sort of staining on these cells to assess
if they are comparable to images of stained red blood cells that can be found
online. It appears these cells survive will in their current media (DMEM/F12 +
10% FBS) so we should assess whether these cells are truly proliferating;
based on this research, it seems that reptilian red blood cells may merely
survive for a very long time rather than proliferating in any significant
amount.

  

  

  

  

References

1\. https://www.fleetscience.org/science-blog/red-blood-cells-large-and-small

2\. https://www.researchgate.net/post/Do-nucleated-red-blood-cells-in-birds-
and-reptiles-undergo-DNA-repair

3\. https://veteriankey.com/clinical-pathology-2/

4\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5307876/

5\. https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphys.2017.01076/full

6\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4220296/

7\.
https://veterinaryresearch.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1297-9716-42-89

8\. https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/pdf/10.1098/rsos.192136

9\. http://www.seaturtle.org/PDF/StacyNI_2011_ClinLabMed.pdf

  

Other sources consulted:

1\.
https://cdn.ymaws.com/members.arav.org/resource/resmgr/Files/Proceedings_2015/Pre_Conference/121.pdf

2\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/9125684/

  

  

  


