

## Author: Kylie  




Clubhouse Link: https://hooks-
cal.clubhouse.io/hooks/v1/5f42e8b1-d297-47c5-97d1-5692a3220b09/60e7f41e-4eb5-4102-96b9-78d2065a4c56/calendars/epics/23355


Aim/Purpose


To stimulate differentiation and alignment through passive mechanical
stimulation using DOLLY12 cells encapsulated in a greater volume of collagen
gels on 3D printed anchor point or conical shaped constructs.


Hypothesis


DOLLY12 cells will survive the collagen encapsulation process and demonstrate
elongation and alignment between the anchor points and across the conical
inserts placed within the a greater volume of gel.


Technical Gap/Background


In a previous experiment we confirmed MuSC survival following cell
encapsulation in PureCol EZ Gel solution (ratio of 4:1 with DMEM/F12, see
here) on conical and pin inserts, up to 4 days in E6 culture conditions. The
gels containing cells contracted significantly. Therefore we are interested to
see if a greater volume of gel inside the inserts will prevent the gels from
contracting and detaching from the inserts early on in the experiment, whilst
still allowing DOLLY12 MuSCs to survive, migrate, align and mature between 3D
printed anchor points. Previously we used  300 uL of cell + gel for the no
inserts and pin insert samples, and 150 uL of gel for conical inserts samples.
For this experiment we will increase the gel amount to 800 uL of cell + gel
for the no inserts and pin insert samples, and 300 uL of gel for conical
inserts samples.  
  


Method/Procedure


Brief summation:

  * We will prepare cell-laden and cell free collagen gels with or without conical inserts or anchor point inserts (inserts added before gel setting). 
  * Subsequently, we will observe the samples, assessing for cell migration/alignment over 14 days. We will image cells with CMFDA live cell tracker at day 2, to see if there is any effects of changing from prolif media to E6. 
  * On day 14 in diff media we will measure the thickness and width of samples with digital calipers while still on the construct, then remove samples with forceps from anchor-point construct for analysis and weigh them. 
  * On D14 samples will be primary and secondary stained for MyoG and MF20 (and also DAPI stained) and imaged.  
  
Experiment Plan

Samples:  

n=3 cell-laden collagen hydrogels on anchorpoint inserts  

n=3 cell-laden collagen hydrogels on conical inserts  

n=3 cell-laden collagen hydrogels without inserts  

n=3 cell free collagen hydrogels without inserts

n=2 cell free collagen gels on conical inserts

n=2 cell free collagen gels on Anchorpoint inserts

  

= 9 cell-laden samples total

= 16 samples overall  
  

  

Cell containing:

Anchor points and no insert samples will contain: 640ul collagen sol: 160ul
cell suspension (4:1) - final volume of 800 uL in each well

Conical insert samples will contain: 240ul collagen sol: 60ul cell suspension
(4:1) - final volume of 300 uL in each well

Cell free:

No cells anchor point  samples and no insert samples: 640 uL collagen sol :
160uL growth media - final volume of 800uL per well.

No cell conical insert samples will contain: 240ul collagen sol: 60ul growth
media  (4:1) - final volume of 300 uL in each well

Media requirements:

Cell free:  
Collagen: ~3.680 mL  
Media (no cells): 0.920 mL

Cell containing:  
Collagen: 4.560 mL  
Media with cells : 1.140 mL (95M cells in 1140uL of cell suspension media.
Each sample has a seeding density of 16.67M cells per mL)

  

Experiment timeline and methods

D-10 Culture cells

D-1 Sterilise all inserts and trays (autoclave at least 4 anchor point inserts
and 4 conical inserts and 2 trays)

D-1 Prepare media for the experiment:

For seeding:  DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1x P/S (with phenol red) ~40ml

For D1 feeds onward: Differentiation media E6 + 1x P/S (with phenol red)
~130ml for 1 week (make again on D6 diff)  

D0 Harvest and encapsulate cells  

  

Prepare plate:

  1. Add sterile inserts into a sterile tray and place the tray onto a non-treated 24-well plate (see plate map below). Place lid ontop and parafilm. Place the plate with the tray and inserts into the fridge for a minimum of 30min before seeding

Cell free seeding in gel

  1. Remove PureCol® EZ Gel solution from 4°C storage (fridge)
  2. Remove the 24 well plate from fridge and remove parafilm
  3. Add 920uL of cold growth media to 3.680 mL of PureCol® EZ Gel 
  4. Whilst suspension is still cold, transfer cell free mix into the wells: 
    1. No insert: 800 uL directly in the middle (n=3)
    2. pin insert: 800 uL to the pin insert, making sure the gel surrounds the pin (n=2)
    3. Conical insert: 300 uL onto the conical inserts (n=2) 

Cells-laden seeding in gel

  1. Prepare cell suspension (95M cells in 1.140 ml in GM and place in fridge at 4'C for a minimum of 10 minutes (~1hr max). 
  2. Remove PureCol® EZ Gel solution from 4°C storage (fridge)
  3. Add 1.140ml of the cold cell suspension to 4.56 ml of cold PureCol® EZ Gel solution (ratio of 4:1 gel:cells, based on: https://advancedbiomatrix.com/purecol-ezgel.html) 
  4. Remove the 24 well plate from fridge and remove parafilm
  5. Whilst the cell-gel mix is still cold seed the inserts (IMPORTANT TO BE QUICK SO MIX STAYS COLD):
    1. anchor points: 800ul per well around and between the insert legs (n=3)
    2. conical inserts: 300ul per well around the perimeter trough of the insert (n=3)
    3. no inserts: 800ul to the center of the well (n=3 )  
  

  6. Move the plate containing the gels into the incubator (37°C, 5% CO2). Gelation will occur within 40 minutes, but allow approximately 60 to minutes for firm gel formation (should start almost immediately).
  7. After 60 minutes (or until gel is firm can take up to 90 min) add pre-warmed proliferation media to each well (DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1x P/S + p38i, enough media to fully immerse samples ~1.5mls per well).  
  
Note - add media gently to the side of the well so as not to dislodge the gels
from the insert

  

D0 100% media change (E6)

D1 100% media change (E6)

D1 Stain with CMFDA and image

D2 100% media change (E6)

D3 100% media change (E6)

D4 100% media change (E6)

D5 100% media change (E6)

D6 100% media change (E6)  

D7 100% media change (E6)

D7 Stain with MyoG and MF20 and DAPI (possible)  

D8 100% media change (E6)

D9 100% media change (E6)

D10 100% media change (E6)

D11 100% media change (E6)

D12 100% media change (E6)  

D13 100% media change (E6)

D14 Measure thickness and width of samples with digital calipers while still
on the construct. Remove samples with forceps from anchor-point construct for
analysis and weigh on a standard lab balance.

D10/14 Primary antibody staining (MyoG, MF20)

Secondary antibody staining and DAPI (MyoG, MF20)

Image samples

Analysis

Write report

Update Header page  

Ensure all lab books are complete & assign for review  

Have entries and report peer reviewed

Make amendments

  


