

## Performed by: Jared Bergman  




Culture IDs to stain

Vessel type(s)Vessel ID  
12 well plate  
7450-DOLLY12-Sheep P10-1of2  
  
  
  




## Protocol

Prepare CMFDA

Preparation of stock and and working solutions for CMFDA Cell Tracker (used
due to not being able to locate Calcein)

1\. Remove the CMFDA powder from the freezer (main lab) and allow it to warm
to room temperature. Each aliquot is 50 ug.

2\. Briefly centrifuge the tube to pellet the CMFDA powder

3\. Add 50 uL high-quality, anhydrous DMSO to the powder and pipette up and
down until well suspended. This will yield a 1 mM stock solution.

NOTE - Once prepared, the DMSO stock solution should be stored at -20'C in a
70 mL pot submerged in silica-gel desiccant beads for a short period for one
series of experiments.

4\. Prepare enough volume of solution to cover your samples using 2ul per ml
(12 mL) of the 1mM CMFDA stock solution to pre-warmed DMEM/F12 PRF growth
media in a light safe tube to protect it from light. Vortex the solution to
ensure thorough mixing. The resulting solution is approximately 2 uM CMFDA
working solution.  
  
NOTE - if keeping the cells in culture after staining (i.e. only staining with
CMFDA not propidium iodide, then sterile filter the media mix to ensure
sterility)

NOTE - only use the working solution once (do not store) so only make up as
much as you need

5\. Place the CMFDA-media mix in the water bath at 37'C for a minimum of 10
minutes (14:15 - 14:45)



Stain the samples

5\. Remove media from your sample of interest and then add 1 mL per well (or
enough to cover the sample) of the pre-warmed DMEM/F12 PRF growth media to the
sample.  
  
 NOTE - If the media on your sample previously contained serum you can wash
gently with serum free media or PBS before the addition of the CMFDA - as
serum can interfere with the staining)

6\. Cover your plate in foil and place in the incubator at 37'C for 30 min.
(14:45 - 15:15)

7\. After 30 min you add 5ul per ml (60 uL total for 12 mL) of your Propidium
Iodide stain directly into the media (already containing the CMFDA) and leave
to incubate on the bench at room temp for 5 minutes.  

Note - Propidium Iodide is pre-prepared as a frozen aliquot in main lab
freezer (concentration is 0.2 mg/mL, it was originally 1 mg/mL but has since
been diluted 201 uL in 799 uL of dPBS) RETURN TO FREEZER IMMEDIATELY AFTER
USE.

8\. Image your samples on the Axio (channel AF488 for CMFDA [Live cells] and
AF 555 for propidium iodide [Dead cells]). Green cells indicate living cells,
red cells indicate dead cells. Do not move samples in between imaging on each
channel (in case you want to overlay these images later). Take 3 images per
channel of the same sample in different locations, all on the same
magnification.

Note  \- You can either remove the dye and keep the cells in pre-warmed media
for imaging, or leave samples in the dye-media mix (if you are imaging
quickly, as propidium iodide will have a negative effect on cell survival
overtime).



Analysis

For each image taken in each location count how many cells were stained green
(channel AF488, alive) and how many were stained red (channel AF555, dead).
From this you can calculate percent survival/viability.

Add together the live and dead cell count to obtain a total cell count. Then
divide the live cell count by the total cell count to calculate the percentage
viability/survival.

Number of live cells + number of dead cells = Total cells

(Number of live cells/total cells) X 100 = % viability  
  
  
 Optional:

It may be easier for calculating percent survival to have your images
overlaid. Once you have your paired images from each channel you can colourise
your images on Image J. Colourise channel AF488 as green for CMFDA [Live
cells] and channel AF 555 as red for propidium iodide [Dead cells]). Then
overlay your images to get an image which resembles the following:  




### Observations/Summary:

The CMFDA clearly lights up cells in all wells. The PI stain is harder to see
but still is visible in all wells. Cells which demonstrate morphology
indicating living or dead cells under phase microscopy are primarily clearly
stained by CMFDA or PI stain respectively. However, the PI stain under the
zaber microscope stained all the same cells as the CMFDA, and did not only
stain the nucleus, which was unexpected. It is likely the zaber scanning
protocol requires more investigation and development to ensure this stain is
imaged correctly.

No clear difference between the conditions can be seen using microscopy at
this stage.  
  
The PI stain should be removed from the media after 5 mins, so a pbs wash and
replacement media should follow PI staining in the next staining protocol.




Reagents used:

NameDetailsVolume used (mL)  
CMFDAS912  
24 ug  
  
PI  
M6317  
60 uL  
DMSO  
A3931  
24 uL  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  




Relevant Images/Figures (if applicable):

7450

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recllAC9PA8Ex6XlD/images


