

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/23217/epic-23217-suspension-
adaptation-9-emem-hydrolysates?cf_workflow=500000005&ct_workflow=all  

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recDao0jo9ukXC9A4?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE:   Generating at least 1 suspension-adapted fibroblast
cell line which is >95% viable and proliferates for >14 days.  

AIM/PURPOSE: To adapt fibroblasts to suspension culture

HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesise that culturing DOLLY12 fibroblasts in EMEMα or RPMI
media supplemented with hydrolysates will enable them to proliferate in
reduced serum conditions prior to their adaption to suspension culture.

RESULTS SUMMARY: For graphical results summary see here

Results indicated that all RPMI and EMEMα cultures were able to adapt to lower
serum concentrations during the weaning of FBS from 10% to 5%, with the malt
extract and phytone peptone exhibiting the highest cell doublings amongst the
hydrolysate conditions. All cultures across the RPMI and EMEMα treatments
groups exhibited a gradual decrease in doublings as the serum concentration
was reduced.

CONCLUSIONS:

Initial results indicate that the addition of hydrolysates was beneficial
during the weaning of FBS from 10% to 5% for fibroblasts in adherent culture.
Differences observed between the RPMI and EMEMα media treatments have
highlighted that EMEMα may be a potentially superior basal media alternative
to both RPMI and DMEM/F12. Namely in its ability to promote fibroblast
proliferative capacity, evidenced by the higher doublings compared to the SC
at 10% FBS. Finally, despite the reduction of doublings as the cells were
weaned to 5% FBS this study indicates that sheep fibroblasts can survive in
lower serum conditions. Ultimately, this highlights that it is beneficial to
include hydrolysates in both RPMI and EMEMα media to adapt fibroblast cells to
low serum conditions  

NEXT STEPS:

  * Continue adapting cells to lower FBS concentrations and if feasible serum-free media. Whilst results on viability were not presented in the results/discussion all cultures demonstrated high viabilities during the trypan blue exclusion counts. However, the cells appear to slow down in terms of how many doublings they can undertake in a week. 
  * Evaluate additional hydrolysates for suitability as FBS alternatives, namely the pea, wheat, and chickpea peptones, as these were not assessed in this study due to procurement issues. 
  * Evaluate if there are additive effects between multiple hydrolysates in a single culture. This would involve culturing fibroblast in media supplemented with 2 or more hydrolysates at a given time.
  * Incorporate EMEMα media in future fibroblast culturing experiments. It was evident that the EMEMα media culture with 10% FBS demonstrated more doublings than the SC (DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS). EMEMα may be a superior alternative to DMEM/F12 as a basal media, however, this requires further evaluation. 


