

Adaptation of adherent anchorage dependent mammalian cells can generally be
performed using two separate approaches. In the direct approach the cells are
quickly switched from adherent culture into suspension systems whereas
sequential adaptation or weaning employs the use of several steps of gradual
adaptation. PPP has historically performed suspension adaptation utilising the
first approach; however, the literature has shown that undertaking a gradual
adaption to serum free media may be beneficial to adapting cells to
suspension.



Slow suspension adaptation processes are defined by the gradual reduction of
serum in growth media prior to the transition of cells into suspension
culture. A study conducted by Jukic and colleagues undertook a slow adaptation
process that took about 130 days. In this process CHO cells were grown in
standard DMEM growth media supplemented with 10% FBS and were adapted to serum
free media conditions in T-flasks by gradual reduction of FBS content from 10%
to 5% to 3% and finally 1% in the DMEM medium [1]. Due to a reduction in cell
viability in the 1% FBS treatment group the CHO cells were grown in a serum-
free HyQ medium containing 0% FBS and grown for 50 days until stable growth
characteristics were obtained [1]. A similar approach was undertaken by Chun
et al., in which CHO 1-62 cells grown in MEM alpha medium containing serum
were adapted to a protein-free suspension culture using a two-step procedure
[2]. The first step was a sequential reduction of the serum concentration in
static culture, and the next step was the selection of CHO cells showing an
elevated cell growth rate in suspension culture [2]. The authors reported a
stepwise reduction in serum during the weaning period from 2.5%, 1.25%, 0.5%,
0.25% and finally to the protein free GC-CHO-PI medium [2]. Despite a
reduction in the growth rate following each decrease in serum concentrations,
cell viability remained high at about 93-97% [2].  It was reported that after
15 subcultures (approximately 48 population doublings levels) the CHO cell
line was successfully adapted to growth in protein-free medium. Other papers
in the literature support the notion that it may be beneficial to adapt cells
initially to low serum or even serum free media prior to subjecting cells to
suspension conditions [3][4][5][6]. Any drops in culture viability or
significant lag in doubling time following a decrease in serum concentration
may be able to be maintained if the serum level is returned to the previous
value prior to the switch [7]. Therefore, it may be necessary to institute a
more gradual decline in serum concentration with these cells. Alternatively,
hydrolysates can be used to supplement cell cultures to encourage cell
proliferation in the absence of serum, providing additional amino acids [8].



  

References:

[1] Jukić, S., Bubenik, D., Pavlović, N., Tušek, A.J. and Srček, V.G., 2016.
Adaptation of CHO cells in serum‐free conditions for erythropoietin
production: Application of EVOP technique for process optimization.
Biotechnology and applied biochemistry, 63(5), pp.633-641.

[2] Chun, B.H., Bang, W.G., Park, Y.K. and Woo, S.K., 2001. Stable expression
of recombinant human coagulation factor XIII in protein-free suspension
culture of Chinese hamster ovary cells. Cytotechnology, 37(3), pp.179-187.

[3] Miki, H. and Takagi, M., 2015. Design of serum-free medium for suspension
culture of CHO cells on the basis of general commercial media. Cytotechnology,
67(4), pp.689-697.

[4] Rasmussen, B., Davis, R., Thomas, J. and Reddy, P., 1998. Isolation,
characterization and recombinant protein expression in Veggie-CHO: a serum-
free CHO host cell line. In Cell Culture Engineering VI (pp. 31-42). Springer,
Dordrecht.

[5] Keen, M.J. and Rapson, N.T., 1995. Development of a serum-free culture
medium for the large scale production of recombinant protein from a Chinese
hamster ovary cell line. Cytotechnology, 17(3), pp.153-163.

[6] Ozturk, S.S. and Palsson, B.O., 1991. Physiological changes during the
adaptation of hybridoma cells to low serum and serum‐free media. Biotechnology
and bioengineering, 37(1), pp.35-46.

[7] https://bioscience.lonza.com/lonza_bs/AU/en/download/content/asset/29284

[8] Sung, Y.H., Lim, S.W., Chung, J.Y. and Lee, G.M., 2004. Yeast hydrolysate
as a low-cost additive to serum-free medium for the production of human
thrombopoietin in suspension cultures of Chinese hamster ovary cells. Applied
microbiology and biotechnology, 63(5), pp.527-536.


