

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/24518/epic-24158-suspension-
adaptation-12-raw-isolate-v-mcb-v-
wcb?vc_group_by=day&cf_workflow=500000005&ct_workflow=all

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recZzgltvg6fP9LNr?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE:   Generating at least 1 suspension-adapted fibroblast
cell line which is >95% viable and proliferates for >14 days.  

AIM/PURPOSE: To adapt fibroblasts to suspension culture and determine which
stage of cell isolation (RI v MCB v WCB) from DOLLY and NANDO fibroblast is
advantageous during the adaption process.  

HYPOTHESIS:  Cells frozen in liquid nitrogen during earlier stages of their
passaging lifetime (i.e., RI and MCB) will perform better in terms of
viability and total cell counts and ultimately will adapt to suspension
conditions.

RESULTS SUMMARY: Results summary of figure see here

No cells from either DOLLY12 or NANDO3 cultures were adapted to suspension
culture. Additionally, this was irrespective of which stage the cells
originated from, i.e., RI/MCB/WCB. Whilst cells from DOLLY and NANDO MCB
samples regularly recorded higher total cell counts during the 30-day
culturing period compared to RI and WCB conditions, these differences were
only marginal.  

CONCLUSIONS:

Unfortunately, cells from RI, MCB, and WCB samples across both DOLLY12 and
NANDO3 fibroblasts were unable to be adapted to suspension culture. All
cultures demonstrated a mass reduction in cell viabilities within one week
evidenced by the low cell numbers of the first data capture time point (day
7). Results also indicated that there were no major differences between the
cell isolation stage (RI v MCB v WCB) on the cells' ability to adapt to
suspension. Additionally, it was observed that there was a complete lack of
viable cells and debris during the manual count which suggested that the cell
pellets may have been accidentally aspirated during one of the early Opentrons
feeding sessions.

NEXT STEPS:

  * Evaluate the effectiveness of 75% media changes compared to 100% in terms of removing debris whilst maintaining cell pellet integrity. Additionally, to avoid any instances in which the cell pellet may be accidentally aspirated. 
  * Standardise the cell staining and imaging protocol in order to prioritise data capture for the most critical time points (days 1-2), particularly during the first week in suspension culture. 
  * Incorporate learnings from incubator incident to develop preventative measures to ensure situations like this are not repeated. 
  * Repeat comparison of RI, MCB, and WCB cell samples using crocodile fibroblasts, primarily as crocodile cells are to be used in Vows' first product. 


