

## Completed by: AK




A continued focus of the pool party team involves attempting to generate a
cell line that is able to proliferate in suspension. Suspension experiments at
Vow have traditionally focused on identifying media components, cell lines or
optimising the suspension process to increase the chances of achieving the
projects Q3 objective. However, in the process of attempting suspension
experiments there has not been a clear indication on what stage (raw isolate v
MCB v WCB) and which in house cell line (DOLLY v NANDO) is optimal to attempt
and ultimately succeed in suspension experiments. For example suspension
trials 1-4 focussed on utilising DOLLY12 fibroblasts from a WCB grow in
adherent culture then transferred directly into suspension [1][2][3][4].
Subsequent experiments have focussed on evaluating cell lines (DOLLY and
NANDO) and thawing directly into suspension from frozen MCB or WCB vials.
Unfortunately, each of these experiments have typically only looked at each of
these variables in isolation and often without technical replicates to assess
statistical significance. Additionally all suspension experiments in the past
have utilised different medias, thus it is inconclusive to determine whether
the stage at which the cells are thawed from (raw isolate/MCB/WCB) and cell
line impact the ability of the cells to adapt to suspension. The rationale
behind testing these three different timepoints is that cells typically have
an increased dependence on serum the longer they are cultured in a growth
media that is supplemented with it [5][6]. Additionally, vitronectin and
fibronectin, components in FBS promote cell adhesion in monolayer cultures and
thus could potentially promote similar behaviour when the cells are
transferred into suspension [7]. Therefore, the longer a cell spends growing
in adherent culture with FBS may be reflective of how well it can perform in
suspension culture conditions. Since each of these timepoints are
representative of how long the cells are culture in serum supplemented media
it is critical they are investigation in tandem. Therefore, the focus of the
experiment is to compare DOLLY and NANDO fibroblast cells thawed into
suspension from three separate timepoints; raw isolate, MCB and WCB.
Ultimately the results of this experiment should provide an indication on
whether using DOLLY or NANDO fibroblast as well as whether cells from early
passages (raw isolate and MCB) or late passage (WCB) are more beneficial to
achieving suspension adapted cell lines.

  

References:

[1] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NzA3LjJ8MTA2MzE3LzU0NC9UcmVlTm9kZS80MTMyMTI1NzkzfDE3OTUuMTk5OTk5OTk5OTk5OA==

[2] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTE4OC4yfDEwNjMxNy85MTQvVHJlZU5vZGUvMTU2ODY0NzI1MnwzMDE2LjI=

[3] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTkxMi4zfDEwNjMxNy8xNDcxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzMzNzM0Mzg4NDF8NDg1NC4z

[4] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjUyMi4wfDEwNjMxNy8xOTQwL1RyZWVOb2RlLzI0NTQwNjAyMDR8NjQwMi4w

[5] Jukić, S., Bubenik, D., Pavlović, N., Tušek, A.J. and Srček, V.G., 2016.
Adaptation of CHO cells in serum‐free conditions for erythropoietin
production: Application of EVOP technique for process optimization.
Biotechnology and applied biochemistry, 63(5), pp.633-641.

[6] Chun, B.H., Bang, W.G., Park, Y.K. and Woo, S.K., 2001. Stable expression
of recombinant human coagulation factor XIII in protein-free suspension
culture of Chinese hamster ovary cells. Cytotechnology, 37(3), pp.179-187.

[7] Hayman, E.G., Pierschbacher, M.D., Suzuki, S. and Ruoslahti, E., 1985.
Vitronectin--a major cell attachment-promoting protein in fetal bovine serum.
Experimental cell research, 160(2), pp.245-258.


