

Background

For biomanufacturing purposes, rapid protocols for the adaption of anchorage
depended cells to suspension culture are often recommended. In some instances
however, successful adaptation has been demonstrated by employing a slower and
more gradual process which also utilises a pre-adaption step in planar
culture.

Jukic et al performed a slow adaption of CHO cells to low serum media in
adherent culture before moving into suspension [1]. They gradually reduced the
serum proportion of the media from 10% to 1%. At 1% they say a 90% drop in
cell viability and therefore moved cells in 2.5% serum to a commercially
available serum free media,  HyQ CCM5CHO [1]. The researchers found that it
was not possible to adapt cells directly from 10% serum media to this
commercial product.  It took 50 days for CHO cells to show stable
proliferation in suspension culture [1]. To date, our unsuccessful suspension
adaption trials at Vow have typically been terminated at 30 days however this
study demonstrates that longer trial periods may be warrened.  

Another study also found that long adaption times of over 10 months were
required to move human lung adenocarcinoma cells (A549) to suspension culture
[2]. These researchers also failed to adapt cells directly from serum
containing media to commercial medias, CDM4HEK239 and HyCell TransFxH.
Instead, they took a month to gradually reduced the serum content from 10% to
1% in adherent culture before transitioning to suspension cultures using these
commercial medias [2]. Interestingly, cells had stable viability but no growth
in CDMHEK239 however when moved to a bioreactor, cell growth improved after
just a few weeks [2]. It took 10 months of culture within the bioreactor for
cells to be fully adapted, and to grow in suspension without aggregation [2].
The approximate doubling time in this system was 30 hours [2].

A protocol of pre-adaption to serum free media prior to suspension adaptation
was also adopted by Shittu et al. Here, chicken iPSCs were adapted to knockout
serum replacement (KSR) media in planar culture, before transitioning to
suspension culture [3]. Once in suspension, the researchers gradually
decreasing the KSR portion of the media from 20% to 1% (They experienced
significant drop in proliferation at 1%) over a period of 4 months [3].



1.            Jukić, S., et al., Adaptation of CHO cells in serum‐free conditions for erythropoietin production: Application of EVOP technique for process optimization. 2016\. 63(5): p. 633-641.

2.            Moreira, A.S., et al., Establishing Suspension Cell Cultures for Improved Manufacturing of Oncolytic Adenovirus. 2020\. 15(4): p. 1900411.

3.            Shittu, I., et al., Development, characterization and optimization of a new suspension chicken-induced pluripotent cell line for the production of Newcastle disease vaccine. 2016\. 44(1): p. 24-32.


