

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:  https://hooks-
cal.clubhouse.io/hooks/v1/5f42e8b1-d297-47c5-97d1-5692a3220b09/60e7f41e-4eb5-4102-96b9-78d2065a4c56/calendars/epics/23333

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recsvMMxxRZmYEE79?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE: Generating at least 1 suspension-adapted fibroblast cell
line which is >95% viable and proliferates for >14 days.  

AIM/PURPOSE: To adapt DOLLY fibroblasts to suspension culture

HYPOTHESIS: That DOLLY fibroblasts will adapt more easily to suspension
culture if they are first adapted to grow in Knockout Serum Replacement medium
in adherent culture

RESULTS SUMMARY:

DOLLY fibroblasts in DMEM/F12 + 10-20% KSR appeared to proliferate faster than
those in DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS medium, based on micrographs. However, the
formation of cell sheets during growth made a single cell suspension
impossible to achieve, and therefore no cell count could be obtained. This
sheet formation is likely a result of the vitamin C content of KSR.
Fibroblasts in medium containing DMEM/F12 + 10-20% KSR did not re-adhere after
passaging, and subsequently died. Fibroblasts in DMEM/F12 + 5% KSR + 5% FBS
medium had a greater proliferative ability than those in DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS
medium. However, proliferation declined rapidly after FBS concentration fell
below 5%, and ceased entirely at 1%. Fibroblasts were unable to be
successfully adapted to serum-free medium using KSR.

CONCLUSIONS: Our hypothesis was not supported; DOLLY fibroblasts in adherent
culture were unable to be successfully adapted to serum-free medium using
Knockout Serum Replacement and therefore could not be seeded into and adapted
to suspension culture.

NEXT STEPS:  
Since the conclusion of this experiment, we have seen success in our
suspension cultures with KSR medium (suspension trial #7). It therefore seems
that KSR is more suitable for use in suspension culture where passaging with a
dissociation is not required. For our next F_DOLLY12 suspension experiment, we
will grow adherent cells in FBS-containing medium, and change to KSR medium
only when seeded into suspension to avoid the formation of sheets.


