

## Completed by: Katie




Excluding calcium and magnesium from suspension culture media may be
beneficial for facilitating adaptation of cells to suspension.

Historically at Vow, we have exclusively used DMEM or a 1:1 mixture of DMEM
and F12 cell culture medias as our basal medias. We supplement these basal
medias with FBS and antibiotics, and we have successfully used this media to
support growth of primary muscle stem cells, fibroblasts, and endothelial
cells. The literature supports the use of DMEM/F12 as the first basal media to
trial when working with a new type of adherent cells. This media contains a
higher concentration of calcium and magnesium, which assist with cell
adherence. However, when attempting to identify a basal media to support
culture of suspension-adapted cells, RPMI is the standard basal media that is
recommended to start trials with. RPMI contains much less calcium and
magnesium than DMEM/F12 and is similar to other basal medias such as EMEM and
MEM which we are attempting to get in house [1]. We have ordered MEM and EMEM
media, but are still waiting on their arrival to Vow HQ. RPMI has already
arrived, and we have also ordered DMEM/F12 without calcium and magnesium
added. We will trial adapting cells to suspension using basal medias
containing reduced calcium and magnesium (DMEM/F12 without ca2+ and mg2+ as
well as RPMI), in hopes that this will support adaptation of our primary cells
to suspension culture.

Inclusion of trace elements may support adaptation of cells to suspension.

Trace elements are often supplemented in serum-free media to replace those
normally found in serum. To achieve adaptation of cells to suspension, we
suspect we will need to reduce our serum concentration. In the long term, we
certainly hope to eliminate serum from our cell culture given the ethical and
cost implications. As such, the idea suspension media will also be serum-free.
Trace elements are often supplemented in serum free media to replace those
normally found in serum. Accordingly, we will include knock-out serum
replacement and/or 1:100 trace elements B and trace elements C into our
trialed suspension medias. The formulations for these compounds are all
chemically defined and their formulations are available online; KSR includes
fewer trace elements and more ingredients found in serum such as albumin.
Trace elements include elements like copper, zinc, selenium, and tricarboxylic
acid intermediates which are needed in minute amounts for proper cell growth.
A range of each can be found in the "B" and "C" trace element mixes. These
micronutrients are essential for many biological processes, e.g. enzyme
functionality maintenance [2].

Considerations of osmolarity in development of suspension media

DMEM is already a fairly high density media, with almost twice the
concentration of amino acids and four times the amount of vitamins as EMEM as
well as ferric nitrate, sodium pyruvate, and some supplementary amino acids
[1].

Careful optimisation of amino acids and vitamins to support growth of cells at
high densities in suspension culture will be necessary in the long run. In the
short term, we are trialing a variety of high density medias which are
specifically designed and available commercially for suspension culture (See
EPIC 22586, Suspension adaptation attempt #7 HyClone/commercial Medias).
However, in the longer term we will not be able to purchase more of these
medias until early 2022. Thus, trialing a few "Vow" high density medias will
be important. In addition, if we can develop a "Vow" high density media, it
may be cheaper than a commercially designed media.

When creating a high density media, optimal osmolarity should be between 260
mOSM/kg and 320 mOSM/kg [1]. Multiple commercially available medias designed
for high density suspension culture indicate osmolarities between 280 mOSM/kg
and 320 mOSM/kg [3]. DMEM/F12 and other media like MEM has an osmolarity of
290.00 -330.00 mOSM/kg [4] which mimics serum at 290 mOsm/kg [5].
Substantially higher osmolarities can lead to problems with cell growth.
Specifically, osmolarities over 330 were found to activate "volume-activated
chloride channels" in HeLa cells [6].

Given how close DMEM/F12 is to the osmolarity of serum, addition of multiple
additional additives may be pushing our osmolarity too high. KSR has a range
of osmolarities, but can be as high as 470 mOSM/kg [7], which supplemented at
10-20% in DMEM/F12 could increase osmolarity into harmful levels. In addition,
for suspension adaptation we are frequently adding in additional supplemented
including 1:100 anti-clumping agent and 100ng/mL of various important growth
factors. It may be worth attempting supplementation of these factors into a
basal media with a lower osmolality in the interest of achieving a final
suspension media below 330 mOSM/kg. RPMI has a slightly lower osmolarity than
DMEM/F12, at 279mOsm/kg, so this could be a good option especially if our
DMEM/F12 is on the high end of the predicted osmolarity for this media.

We will trial DMEM/F12 with low calcium and magnesium compared to RPMI to
determine whether there are any differences in osmolarity that have an impact.

Incorporating additional Vitamins and Amino Acids into suspension culture
media:  
RPMI and D/F are both fairly complete mixtures of both vitamins and amino
acids. However, like the trace elements, we could supplement with additional
vitamins and amino acids. We have purchased the 100x mix of vitamins in RPMI
and they are at an osmolarity of lower than 330mOSM/kg [8], so thus could be
added at a 1:100 concentration without harming the osmolarity further. In
addition, the supplies of the 50x RPMI amino acids solution [9] are on
backorder and will not arrive at the Vow HQ until Christmas 2021, but all of
the 20 amino acids found in that solution can be found in the 50X MEM
essential amino acids mix [10] when combined with the 50 MEM non-essential
amino acids mix [11]. Similar to the vitamins, we could add a 1:50 dilution of
the amino acids without causing increases to the final osmolarity.

Experimental Purpose (round 11)

The purpose of this next experiment will be to trial several Vow-mixed
suspension culture medias. By assessing how cells adapted into these various
suspension culture behave, we will be able to determine the following:  
  
1) Assess the effect of moving away from calcium and magnesium (compare
DMEM/F12 to DMEM/F12 without calcium and magnesium

2) Assess the effect of moving into a media designed for suspension like RPMI,
which has a slightly lower osmolarity.

3) Assess the effect of supplementing trace elements, amino acids, and
vitamins (in the context of each of the 3 x basal media conditions - D/F,
RPMI, and D/F minus calcium and magnesium)

In addition, a few conditions from this experiment are nearly the same as
conditions from suspension adaptation attempt #7. We will hopefully get an
idea around whether 10% KSR or 20% KSR appears superior for adapting cells to
suspension. from that comparison.

  

Resources:

  
1\. https://www.labome.com/method/Cell-Culture-Media-A-Review.html

2\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/14237169/

3\. https://resources.rndsystems.com/pdfs/datasheets/ccm023.pdf

4\. https://himedialabs.com/TD/AL187A.pdf

5\.
https://emedicine.medscape.com/article/2099042-overview#:~:text=Description-,The%20serum%20or%20plasma%20osmolality%20is%20a%20measure%20of%20the,liter%20of%20solution%20defines%20osmolarity%20.

6\.
https://www.researchgate.net/post/Is_400_mOsmol_kg_too_high_for_cell_culture

7\. https://www.sciencedirect.com/book/9780123859426/handbook-of-stem-cells

8\. https://himedialabs.com/TD/VA003.pdf

9\. https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/AU/en/product/sigma/r7131

10\. https://www.thermofisher.com/au/en/home/technical-resources/media-
formulation.164.html

11https://www.thermofisher.com/au/en/home/technical-resources/media-
formulation.165.html

  

  

  


