

## Completed by: AK


Aim/Purpose


To generate 384-well plate phase contrast images of fibroblast cells to assess
if the in-house ML model or FIJI macros can accurately count cells in
suspension.


Hypothesis


Phase contrast images of DOLLY12 fibroblast cells in suspension will be able
to be accurately counting using either a modified ML model or newly developed
FIJI macro.


Technical Gap


The current ML model used to quantify cell numbers from Zaber imaged cultures
has been optimised for adherent cells. Unfortunately cells grown in suspension
exhibit a much more circular morphology compared to adherent cells and as such
the ML model will be unable to quantify cell numbers from suspension cultures.


Method/Procedure


1\. Thaw a fresh vial of DOLLY12 fibroblast cells (WCB vial at 1M cells per
vial)

2\. Prepare stain buffer in 15 mL tube by combining the following (2 drops
Hoechst per mL of dPBS):

  * 4 mL of filtered dPBS (filtered to remove debris)
  * 8 drops of Live Cell Stain ReadyFlow Hoechst 33342 

3\. Resuspend the cells in 500 uL of fresh growth media (DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS +
1X P/S) and take a 10uL sample to obtain a cell count.

4\. Take 100 uL (100,000 cells) of the cell resuspension and dilute in 30 mL
of growth media. This will give a concentration of 3,333 cells per mL.

5\. Dilute the cell suspension aliquot in the appropriate volume of growth
media such that the cell concentrations below can be reached (Note that this
will also depend on the cell count obtained in step 2):

    * Cell suspension at conc 400 cells/mL will provide 10 cells per well - add 8.3 mL of growth media to 1mL of cell suspension to obtain a 400 cells/mL concentrate
    * Cell suspension at conc 800 cells/mL will provide 20 cells per well - add 4.15 mL of growth media to 1mL of cell suspension to obtain a 800 cells/mL concentrate
    * Cell suspension at conc 1600 cells/mL will provide 40 cells per well - add 2.075 mL of growth media to 1mL of cell suspension to obtain a 1600 cells/mL concentrate 
    * Cell suspension at conc 3200 cells/mL will provide 80 cells per well - add 1.0375 mL of growth media to 1mL of cell suspension to obtain a 3200 cells/mL concentrate 

6\. Add 15 uL of each of the diluted cultures into a separate column of the
384 well plate, see below:

7\. Immediately after seeding the final culture condition add 10 uL of Hoechst
33342 ReadyFlow staining solution to each culture well of the 384-well plate.

8\. Incubate for 30 minutes at room temperature in the dark. During the 30
minute incubation periodically observe the cells to check for cell attachment

9\. Centrifuge the plate at 650 x g for 1 minute

10\. Image the entire 384 well plate on both Phase contrast and DAPI imaging
channels.

  

  

Post image acquisition

1\. Initially assess if a human observer can distinguish cells that are
suspended in the growth media solution and can be discerned from the
background and any debris that may be present. If so proceed to 2.

2\. Manually label images of suspended cells to train the ML model on
identifying cells in suspension. Alternatively, if possible try to develop a
macro code in FIJI that could function in a similar manner to the ML model
based on the features of the cells, i.e. size, circularity, edges, etc.  


