Introduction


Alginate for cell encapsulation and muscle tissue engineering

The naturally occurring polysaccharide alginate has been widely used in
biomedical applications because of its non-antigenicity, good
biocompatibility, and reasonable biodegradability. An additional attribute of
alginate, is that in the presence of divalent cations (Ca2+), it can be
ionically crosslinked in an manner which is mild, cell compatible, easy to
apply and cost-effect. As a result alginate has been popularly employed as a
drug-delivery system, a cell carrier, and a cell-laden bioink in a 3D
bioprinting (Ahn, Lee, Bonassar, & Kim, 2012).

Furthermore, owing to the processability of alginate, alginate scaffolds can
be readily processed into various morphologies including microspheres, 3D
sponges, nanofibers, and microscale cell-laden struts. Consequently, alginate-
based materials have already been applied in numerous tissue-engineering
applications e.g., skin, cartilage, and bone (Kim, Ahn, Kim, Cho, & Chun,
2011; Markstedt et al., 2015; Wang, Xia et al., 2015).

An additional benefit of alginate, for the purposes of clean meat engineering,
is the biocompatibility and edibility of this material type. Wherein, sodium
alginate derived from brown algae or seaweed such as kelp is already an
accepted food product, present as an emulsifier in products such as ice cream,
salad dressing, fruit juice, and yoghurt. In addition, the commonly employed
alginate cross-linker 'calcium chloride' is used as an additive in the food
industry; as a way of enhancing the salty taste of food products such as
pickles without increasing their sodium content.

Thus, due to it's known biocompatibility and processability alginate hydrogels
represent a promising material candidate for investigation for cellular
agriculture using MuSCs. Despite this, limited literature can be found on
alginate for the application of tissue engineering for clean meat production
(an occurrence which is likely due to both the novelty and the industrial
nature of this research area). Consequently, relevant information on alginate
in combination with muscle cells should be sourced from biomedical research,
including the following literature:

Muscle tissue engineering using gingival mesenchymal stem cells encapsulated
in alginate hydrogels containing multiple growth factors, Ansari et al., 2017
(DOI: 10.1007/s10439-016-1594-6)

In brief, Ansari et al., demonstrated that an RGD coupled alginate hydrogel
encapsulation system supported the viability of gingival mesenchymal stem
cells (GMSCs) and their myogenic differentiation capacity. In terms of
differentiation, it was found that alginate hydrogels with an elasticity
between 10 and 16 kPa, in comparison to softer (<5kPa) or stiffer (>20kPa)
hydrogels, demonstrated the highest capacity for myogenic differentiation as
evidenced by an upregulation of myogenic genes, including myogenin, MyoD, and
Myf5 GMSCs. With a higher expression than that of encapsulated human bone
marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hBMMSCs), which were stated as the gold
standard of MSC therapy.

Thus, the elasticity of the alginate hydrogel in the experiments by Ansari et
al., was shown to control the myogenic fate of the encapsulated cells.
Subsequently, when we test alginate with our MuSCs at Vow, we should consider
a range of alginate moduli, by adjusting factors such as cross-linker
concentration, crosslinking time and/or polymer concentration, as this will
likely influence the behavior of our cells, as well as their capability for
myogenesis.

Moreover, Ansari et al., showed that their alginate hydrogels possess a porous
microstructure 16 , which is an attribute that enables the diffusion of
oxygen, nutrients and growth factors to the encapsulated cells. Thus, it was
stated that alginate with an optimised matrix elasticity of 10-16 kPa presents
a highly suitable scaffold biomaterial for muscle tissue engineering.

In previous studies in house, we never observed cell differentiation inside
alginate, probably due to insufficient cell seeding density. In this study we
are hoping to overcome this limitation and enable alginate as a viable
candidate for cell encapsulation.

  

### References:

1\. Hydrogels for Skeletal Muscle Regeneration (DOI:
10.1007/s40883-019-00146-x)

2\. Nano/microscale topographically designed alginate/PCL scaffolds for
inducing myoblast alignment and myogenic differentiation (DOI:
10.1016/j.carbpol.2019.115041)

3\. Synthesis of Injectable Alginate Hydrogels with Muscle-Derived Stem Cells
for Potential Myocardial Infarction Repair
(https://doi.org/10.3390/app7030252)

4\. Functional 3D Tissue Engineering Scaffolds: Materials
(books.google.com.au) Ying Deng, Jordan Kuiper * 2017


Summary


## Study setup:

  1. Cell expansion of C2C12s
  2. Preparation of materials (4% alginate, autoclaved, and 100mM CaCl2, sterile-filtered)
  3. Day 0: Cell harvest and seeding into gel matrices in inserts vs controls (see platemap below)
  4. Day 1: 100% switch media to E6 and start differentation
  5. Day 2: assess viability using CMFDA or MTT assay for half of each sample sacrificed other half fix (and stain with Day6 samples) , 100% feed
  6. Day 3: 100% feed
  7. Day 4: 100% feed
  8. Day 5: 100% feed
  9. Day 6: assess maturity of muscle using immunostaining or total protein quant.


Key Findings

  1. Alginate gels were successfully seeded into conical inserts without major warping
  2. Cell viability was maintained inside Alginate gels, but no adhesion and consequently, no differentiation was observed.
  3. no gel contraction was observed due to cells not adhering to the hydrogel matrix
  4. spherical cell-laden alginate constructs were also synthesized and will be further investigated in future studies
  5. Bradford results were reflective of cell density for 2% Alginate gels but not for 1% alginate.Further optimization needed


Discussion and Limitations


Discussion:

The preparation of cell-laden alginate spheres was surprisingly
straightforward and is a promising step towards scaling the maturation process
(scaffolding). We included this sample format as a promising option to provide
maturation scaffolds suitable for suspension-capable bioreactors (e.g. bubble
reactor). Gels cultured on conicalinserts were aiming to replicate results
seen on Collagen and fibrinogen where contraction and cell adhesion was
observed, but with Alginate using a more sustainable, scalabe (cost!) and
animal free material.

However, using Alginate matrices only, no cell adhesion or contraction was
observed, most likely due to lack of binding sites. An alternative explanation
is unsuitable matrix stiffness despite trialling 2 different stiffnesses
reported to be suitable. We did however not test the actual stiffness of the
gels generated due to lack of testing infrastructure (rheometer).

Imaging of these gels still proved challenging due to high cell densities and
background fluorescence from other focal planes.

The Bradford results collected from this study were inconclusive since the gel
fragments investigated were not always the same size/weight/cell density.
However, for 2% gels clear trends for total protein content could be compared
for cell-laden samples vs controls for both insert and insert-free samples.

  

Limitations:

  1. The preparation of alginate gels took quite long, and cells were exposed to non-ideal conditions (high calcium, room temp, no media) for extended periods of time. This could have affected experiment outcomes.
  2. Some of the gels were extremely fragile and essentially disintegrated when moved. It was also difficult to remove gels from the inserts and therefore some of the samples were lost. - no contraction of gel was seen.
  3. The inconsistent sample size obtained from insert-cell containing samples made Bradford analysis challenging and no "per-cell" protein content could be deduced.


Conclusion


We found that high density encapsulation alone does not enable cells to adhere
and differentiate in matrices (such as alginate) that lack natural (ECM)
binding sites. Although cells survived inside alginate, they were not able
contract the gel matrix regardless of gel stiffness (1% vs 2%). Despite the
alginate matrix being optically clearer compared to previously studied gels
(collagen and fibrin), IF staining and imaging were not significantly easier
and alternative methods of maturation analysis need to be assessed.


Future Directions


  * include ECM proteins as a minor component to the alginate matrix
  * move to a sample format that allows for direct comparison between conditions without having to slice and weigh samples or normalize to cell counts in order to analyze degree of maturation, e.g. the meat ball format will allow for easy direct comparison of protein content for different samples


