

## Completed by: AK




Process:

Preparation of ULA coatings - 1.5% (w/v) agarose

Method:

1\. Weigh out 0.75 g agarose (low melting temperature) in weigh-boat

2\. Add agarose to a 100 mL schott bottle with 50 mL of MilliQ water

3\. Place schott bottle on a hot plate and set to 65°C to melt the agarose
into the solution, with the addition of a magnetic stirrer.

4\. Once dissolved, autoclave the solution the sterilise it.

5\. Add 50 uL of the solution into each well of a 96-well plate

  

Preparation of ULA coatings - 0.1%-1% (w/v) MC

Method:

1\. Weigh out the required amount of MC to make solutions of MC at 0.1, 0.3,
0.6 and 1% MC.

2\. Add the MC powder into 50 mL of DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1X P/S media for each
concentration.

3\. Place solutions in water bath at 37°C to disperse the powder evenly in the
media for 10-20 minutes. Vigorously shake the solutions periodically and it
should form a white precipitate.

4\. Transfer the solutions into a fridge to dissolve the MC powder. MC
dissolve in cold water, however as the powder comes into contact with cold
water if forms a gel layer, dramatically slowing the diffusion of water into
the powder. Hence step 3 to disperse it first.

5\. Periodically shake the solutions until the entire powder becomes
dissolved.  

6\. Pass solutions through a 0.22 µm filter the sterilise. Prepared solution
may be aliquoted and stored at 4°C for up to 12 months. MC serves as a non-
cytotoxic, inert, suspending agent to enhance cell-cell adhesion and
discourage the formation of an adherent cell monolayer.

  

Preparation of ULA coatings - 1% poloxamer and 1% pluronic  F-127

Method:

1\. Weight out 1 g poloxamer 407 and pluronic F-127

2\. Add each powder to 50 mL of MilliQ water and agitate until particles are
evenly dispersed - with vigorous shaking.

3\. Pass through a 0.22 µm to sterilise the solution.




Observations:

\- Agarose does not melt until temperature reaches above 60°C. Even with
continuous stirring the agarose remains as a solid in the solution until the
temperature reaches between 60-65°C

\- Despite the recommendation that MC needs to be heated to 50-60°C it was
only heated to 37°C and still managed to dissolve in the growth media. It is
only necessary to heat the MC powder to ensure it dissolves fasted whilst in a
cold solution.

\- 1% MC is extremely viscous, with a similar texture to that of honey, syrup
and the PureCollagen gel solution.  As the MC concentration decreases there is
a proportional decrease in how viscous the solution is.

\- Both the poloxamer and pluronic don't appear the form gel like solutions.
As both as classified as surfactant it is possible that they prevent solution
from becoming gel like. Therefore it is unclear if they will prevent cell
attachment.


