

## Completed by: Eva




Graph 1: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with RT media
across 7 days of differentiation for C2C12 cells in 2% HS differentiation
media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

Graph 2: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with RT media
across 7 days of differentiation for C2C12 cells in E6 differentiation media.
Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

Graph 3: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with RT media
across 7 days of differentiation for DOLLY12 cells in 2% HS differentiation
media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

Graph 4: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with RT media
across 7 days of differentiation for DOLLY12 cells in E6 differentiation
media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

Graph 5: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with cold media
across 7 days of differentiation for C2C12 cells in 2% HS differentiation
media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

Graph 6: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with cold media
across 7 days of differentiation for C2C12 cells in E6 differentiation media.
Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

Graph 7: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with cold media
across 7 days of differentiation for DOLLY12 cells in 2% HS differentiation
media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

Graph 8: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with cold media
across 7 days of differentiation for DOLLY12 cells in E6 differentiation
media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

Graph 9: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with warm media
across 7 days of differentiation for C2C12 cells in 2% HS differentiation
media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

Graph 10:Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with warm media
across 7 days of differentiation for C2C12 cells in E6 differentiation media.
Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data point.

  

  

Graph 11: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with warm
media across 7 days of differentiation for DOLLY12 cells in 2% HS
differentiation media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data
point.

  

  

Graph 12: Plot graph of mean cell counts per handling condition with warm
media across 7 days of differentiation for DOLLY12 cells in 2% HS
differentiation media. Error bars show standard error. N = 3 for each data
point.


