

Perform thaw using below volumes:




## Performed by: VB & AK  




Passage Culture IDs

Vial ID thawedSeeded Flask ID(s)Seeded Flask Type  
2314-Culture-6303-Vial-35of115  
8713-F_DOLLY12-Sheep P8-1of1  
384 well plate (black walls)  
  
  
  




Media/Reagents used:

  

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
Growth MediaA7449  
  
  
  




Process:

1\. Aliquotted the required volume of each reagent in the table above and then
placed all aliquots to warm in the water bath for a minimum of 20 minutes
prior to use:

  1.  Growth media (for seeding):   30 mL + 17 mL in  2x 50 mL  tubes 
  2.  Time that all aliquot was placed in the water bath to warm before use:  15:53 

2\. Collected the cryovial from Liquid Nitrogen storage & place in foam
floater in water bath for 5 min  13:46 - 13:51  

Location where cryovial was collected from:

 Homer  OR Dewer 1

Tower/Bucket #2  

Box/Cane #2  

Vial location:D7

Vial ID(s): 2314  




3\. Ethanol sprayed & transferred the vial(s) to the BSC.

4\. Added  500 ÂµL of Growth Media (to generate a total volume of 1mL in the
cryovial) to the cryovial, resuspended the cell suspension gently to reduce
osmotic shock.

5\. Take a 10 uL aliquot and perform a haemocytometer count for total cell
numbers

  1. Cell number:    850,000 




6\. Prepare stain buffer in 15 mL tube by combining the following (2 drops
Hoechst per mL of dPBS):

  * 5 mL of filtered dPBS (filtered to remove debris)
  * 10 drops of Live Cell Stain ReadyFlow Hoechst 33342

7\. Take 141 uL (100,000 cells) of the cell resuspension and dilute in 30 mL
of growth media. This will give a concentration of 3,333 cells per mL.

8\. Dilute the cell suspension aliquot in the appropriate volume of growth
media such that the cell concentrations below can be reached (Note that this
will also depend on the cell count obtained in step 5):

    * Cell suspension at conc 400 cells/mL will provide 10 cells per well - add 8.3 mL of growth media to 1mL of cell suspension to obtain a 400 cells/mL concentrate
    * Cell suspension at conc 800 cells/mL will provide 20 cells per well - add 4.15 mL of growth media to 1mL of cell suspension to obtain a 800 cells/mL concentrate
    * Cell suspension at conc 1600 cells/mL will provide 40 cells per well - add 2.075 mL of growth media to 1mL of cell suspension to obtain a 1600 cells/mL concentrate 
    * Cell suspension at conc 3200 cells/mL will provide 80 cells per well - add 1.0375 mL of growth media to 1mL of cell suspension to obtain a 3200 cells/mL concentrate 

9\. Add 15 uL of each of the diluted cultures into a separate column of the
384 well plate, see below:

10\. Immediately after seeding the final culture condition add 10 uL of
Hoechst 33342 ReadyFlow staining solution to each culture well of the 384-well
plate.

11\. Incubate for 30 minutes at room temperature in the dark. During the 30
minute incubation periodically observe the cells to check for cell attachment

12\. Centrifuge the plate at 650 x g for 1 minute

  1. Timestamp:    15:40 - 16:00 

13\. Image the entire 384 well plate on both Phase contrast and DAPI imaging
channels.

  1. Phase/DAPI timestamp: 16:31 - 16:47

  

Zaber settings and setup:

\- 384 well plate was imaged under 2 rows and 1 columns settings, with snake
pattern enabled. Entire run took approximately 16 minutes for both the phase
and DAPI channels. Ideally we would expect it to be roughly ~8 minutes per
channel setting. This was for 1536 total images.

\- Exposure time for the channels were set to 30 for Phase and 60 for DAPI.
These settings offered the best compromise between over and under exposed
features. Observation that was noticed in the DAPI stained wells was that
those containing more cells generally had to be set to a lower exposure time
compared to those with less cells. Potential implications for this could be
that as certain clones perform better than others it may be difficult to set
an exposure time that accommodates both good and bad performing clones.

\- Lamp intensity for phase was 1.3268 and 55.0686 for DAPI. DAPI
BaslerCamera- Gain was set at 6.0037whilst for phase was set to 0.

\- Binning set to 2.

\- Objective 5x

  

Post image acquisition

1\. Initially assess if a human observer can distinguish cells that are
suspended in the growth media solution and can be discerned from the
background and any debris that may be present. If so proceed to 2.

2\. Manually label images of suspended cells to train the ML model on
identifying cells in suspension. Alternatively, if possible try to develop a
macro code in FIJI that could function in a similar manner to the ML model
based on the features of the cells, i.e. size, circularity, edges, etc.  




SOPs used:

  * SOP_Thawing Cells Into Adherent Culture V_02




Summary:

\- No reservoirs, used sterile 70 mL pots and as such could only fit 4 pipette
tips at a time, slowly down the process immensely. Not sure if this resulted
in cells adhering to the culture plate

\- Integra couldn't aspirate 15 uL so used 10 uL instead (reduced to total
amount of cells added to the wells)

\- Small cell numbers in some of the wells, particularly the low seeding
densities (10/20)- perhaps next time just seed at a single density (this would
be useful especially if there's not much difference between low seeding
densities and high densities)

\- Spent about 30 mins explaining to Varshana on how to capture images using
the Zaber (which I did knowingly to make sure she receives some training on
how to perform it), unclear if cells could have adhered in that time. If so,
completely Adrian's fault.




Relevant Images/Figures (if applicable):

MIA link: https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recpwMQbpy4yJ2b02/images


