

## Completed by: AG, TT




A major focus for the suspension culture adaptation pipeline is to develop a
high-throughput platform to maintain and monitor large numbers of suspension
cultures. A critical requirement for this purpose is the ability to generate
cell counts in an upscalable and reproducible manner to enable large-scale
screens of culture conditions to determine the optimal workflow for the
generation of suspension adapted cell lines. The currently used workflow for
attaining cell counts involves staining cells with fluorescent nucleic acid
stains that are either permeable (total cell counts) or impermeable (dead cell
counts) to live cell membranes. Stained cells are then imaged using the Zaber
automated fluorescence microscopy imaging system. Cell counts are then
automatically generated using the image processing tool FIJI, that is able to
identify and count "cells" from the captured images. Previous experiments have
identified Hoechst Readyflow to be an appropriate live nuclear stain for this
workflow due to its ability to stain cells with high contrast and produce
counts that are comparable to counts obtained via trypan blue exclusion.  
  
However, as seen in recent suspension culture experiments, Readyflow at times
appears to cause the formation of precipitate that is visible in the DAPI
channel during Zaber microscopy. This in turn can impair the accuracy cell
counts obtained from the automated FIJI macro. Combined with its relatively
high cost it was deemed necessary to explore cheaper and more reliable
alternatives.




Manual: https://www.thermofisher.com/document-connect/document-
connect.html?url=https://assets.thermofisher.com/TFS-
Assets%2FLSG%2Fmanuals%2Fmp21486.pdf





StainWebpageRecommended working concentration  
Notes  
Hoechst 33342 Trihydrochloride trihydrate, 100 mg (H1399)  
https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/H1399  
0.2 - 5ug/mL Reconstitute in water (NOT PBS) to give stock of 10 mg/mL  
Hoechst 333258 Pentahydrate 10mg/mL (H3659)  
https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/H3569  
0.2 - 5ug/mL  
  
  
Hoechst 33342 Readyflow  
https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/R37165  
2 drops/mL  


