

The following is an excerpt from the experiment template

While it is hard to be prescriptive with what a report should contain, there
are a few common points that all reports should consider. A report should
(almost) replicate the "Discussion" section of a journal article. The
following is a ROUGH guide with a suggested paragraph structure. PLEASE ensure
to include references to previously published work (or links to work conducted
here at Vow).

  1. What is the most important overarching finding? 
  2. A brief discussion of all results and how they fit into our final goal of producing an edible meat product (this section might be several paragraphs long and should put the results into the context of what has been done before). 
  3. Any limitations of the study, why might our results not be correct? 
  4. What is the overall conclusion? 
  5. Discussion of future directions.

***PLEASE NOTE, YOUR REPORT SHOULD BE FINALISED WITHIN TWO WEEKS OF COMPLETING
ALL EXPERIMENTAL WORK.***  


Key Result(s)


After 14 days in culture, we failed to establish an adherent cell population
from CHOMP01 isolate.


Results and Discussion


It is probable that the process we used for the isolation of our CHOMP cells
was not ideally suited for reptiles. The process was taken directly from our
mammalian protocol which has not been adapted for reptilian cells. For
example, the tissue digestion was performed at 37Â°C which may have been too
warm given that a crocodiles native body temperature is lower than that of
mammals. It is also possible that the M199 based media used in this expansion
was not optimal for crocodile fibroblasts.


Limitations


It is unclear if the failure to establish an adherent cell population was due
to shortcomings is our isolation or culturing protocols (or both). Future
CHOMP isolations and expansions should include a number or tissue digestion
and cell culture conditions in order to optimise the protocol for crocodile
cells.


Conclusion(s)


We were not successful in establishing an adherent cell culture from our
CHOMP01 isolate. It is unclear if this was due to sub-optimal cell isolation
or culture conditions (or both).


Future Direction(s)


Before attempting another CHOMP biopsy, an extensive literature review should
be performed in order to determine which cell isolation and culture protocols
will give us the best chance of establishing an adherent population of
crocodile cells. A number of cell isolation and culture conditions should then
be trialled in order to optimise our chances of obtaining an adherent
population of CHOMP cells.


