

Time into incubator: 11:03 am 16-April-2021  

Observations here:

Sample0m  
Time: 10:58 am  
Initial: LL1h  
Time: 12:21 pm  
Initial: LL2h  
Time: 13:00  
Initial: KK3h  
Time: 14:24  
Initial: LL4h  
Time:15:00  
Initial: KK24h  
Time: 14:12 (27-April-2021)  
Initial: LL  
  
 ~~Dried bean curd sticks (Wet)~~

Dissolved completely over the weekend

NA  
  
Dried bean curd sticks (Dry)

  
Held shape going into liquid. Quite hard and brittle.Softened up but still in
formheld form.Still holding form. Some particles visible in media. Still quite
firm. Resembles skin. Resists breaking when squeezed with tweezers. Piece with
layers has retained layered shape.Held form. Some chunky particles in media.
Still firm and holding together. Also flexible but not stretchy.Held form.
Some chunky particles in media. Still firm and holding together. Also flexible
but not stretchy.  
  
Dried bean curd knots (Wet)

  
Feels like overcooked pasta. Held shape going into liquid.Feels like
overcooked pasta. Held form but has bits floating in media. Looks a bit like
skin.Held form. Can see thinner edges beginning to disintegrate. Small flakes
in the mediaHeld shape but softening. Lots of particles in media. Breaks into
two when squeezed with tweezers.Held form. Can see thinner edges beginning to
disintegrate. A lot of small flakes in the media. Makes media look cloudy.  
Fragile and tender. but still able to pick up without tearing  
  
Held shape but softening further. Lots of particles in media - looks cloudy.
Can still manipulate without tearing.  
  
  

Dried bean curd knots (Dry)

  
Held shape going into liquid. Quite hard and brittle.Held shape. Softened up
and is more pliable. Looks like skin. Minimal bits floating in media.Held
form. Can see small particles in the media.Held form. Can see more particles
in media. Resists breaking when squeezed with tweezers. Still resembles
skin.Held form. Can see a lot small particles in the media.Held form. Can see
particles in media. Soft and flexible, not elastic.  
  
 ~~Fried bean curd sheets (Wet)  ~~

Became extremely fragile over weekend, cannot pick up to transfer to well
plate  

NA  
  
Fried bean curd sheets (Dry)  

Quite delicate and fragile. Held shape going into liquid. Very thin.Very soft
and floppy. Disintegrating in media.Held shape. cannot see too many particles
in media.Very soft, floppy and soggy. Wraps around tweezers when picked up.
Lots of particles in media.Held shape. Some particles in media.Held shape but
very soft and floppy. Difficult to move without tearing. Media has oily
droplets and lots of tiny particles.  
  
Wheat flour + Gluten 100 min

  
Firm, bouncy. Held shape going into liquid.Has not changed. Some small bits
floating in media.Held shape.Held shape and mostly resists breaking when
squeezed with tweezers. can see some small particles in the mediaHeld shape.
Some small particles in the media. firm and slightly bouncyHeld shape. Some
small particles in the media. Firm and slightly bouncy  
  
Gluten 100 min

  
Bouncy, a little squishy. Held shape going into liquid.Has not changed. Some
small bits floating in media.Held shape, but can see some particles in the
media. Particularly close to the sampleHeld shape and form, even when squeezed
with tweezers. But can see some particles in the media.Held shape. Some larger
particles in the media. Firm but slightly bouncy - shows resistanceHeld shape.
Some larger particles in the media. Firm but slightly bouncy - shows
resistance  
  
Wheat flour 100 min

  
Firm, bouncy. Held shape going into liquid.Has not changed. Some small bits
floating in media.Held shape, can see some small particles in the mediaHeld
shape but breaks in two when squeezed with tweezers. can see some small
particles in the mediaheld shape, but has some particles in the media. Makes
media appear a bit cloud. Firm but slightly bouncy - shows resistanceheld
shape, but has some particles in the media. Makes media appear a bit cloud.
Firm but bouncy - shows resistance  
  
  




#### Images

Samples before autoclaving

Dried beancurd stick after wet autoclave cycle

Dried beancurd stick (dry autoclaved)

Dried beancurd knot (wet autoclaved)Dried beancurd knot (dry autoclaved)

 Gluten (seitan)

Gluten + wheat flour

Wheat flour

  

  

  


