

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE: https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/epic/16125/cell-
seeding-experiment-with-hoechst-cells?ct_workflow=all

  

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:

Day 1 Images Plate 6403 (Flipped and Seeded Both Sides)

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recXQRBKW0y9Rf0mq/images

Day 1 Image Plate 6402 (Suspension Seeded)

https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recZ3CKSioSUVQFht/images

  

RELATED TO MILESTONE:  Milestone 1B: Have the first biomaterials DOE designed
and underway.

  

AIM/PURPOSE:

1\. To assess cell adhesion and coverage when direct seeding of DOLLY12 muscle
precursor cells onto both sides of zein scaffold vs cell suspension seeding
onto zein scaffold.

2\. To assess cell adhesion and coverage when seeding of DOLLY12 muscle
precursor cells onto wet scaffold vs scaffold dried for five hours.

  

HYPOTHESIS:

1\. At day 1 and day 6 there will be even coverage of cells on both sides of
the zein scaffold for samples directly seeded onto both sides of the
scaffolds, with more cells present on the dry seeded scaffolds than the wet
seeded scaffolds.

2\. At day 1 and day 6 there will be more coverage of cells on one side of the
zein scaffold for samples seeded with cell suspension, with more cells present
on the dry seeded scaffolds than the wet seeded scaffolds.

  

RESULTS SUMMARY:

Wet Flipped Scaffold seeding was scored with a higher cell scaffold coverage
at day 1 and day 7 compared to the other seeding methods. Wet Flipped Scaffold
seeding also demonstrated similar cell coverage on each side of the scaffold
at day 7, whereas the other seeding methods showed more coverage on one side
of the scaffold than the opposite side.

  

CONCLUSIONS: Wet flipped scaffold seeding was found to have higher cell
coverage and a more even cell coverage on each side of the scaffold, compared
to the other seeding methods. These results indicate that pre-drying the zein
scaffolds is an unnecessary step in cell seeding and that flipping the
scaffold provides more even cell coverage on each side of the scaffold when
seeding a wet scaffold.

  

NEXT STEPS: The pre-drying step of zein scaffolds should be removed from cell
seeding SOPs which use zein scaffolds for muscle cell culture and a step
should be added to flip the scaffold, with half the desired cell quantity per
well seeded on each side of the scaffold.

  


