

Request sent to Chris O'keefe to review this experiment 25/06/21  
  
  
LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE: https://app.clubhouse.io/vowfood/story/17531/cut-
up-sterilise-and-plate-gelatex-scaffolds

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recD5TC2uChYDDxmz?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE: MS3B

# Aim: To assess cell adhesion of DOLLY12 MuSCs on nanofibrous gelatin and
zein scaffolds produced by Gelatex.

# Hypothesis:

DOLLY12 MuSC cells will adhere and maintain adherence of over 60% confluence
to nanofibrous gelatin and zein scaffolds at seeding densities of 0.7, 1 and
2M cells/sample after 14 days in ACF differentiation media.

# Technical Gap:

In previous experiments we have seen good cellular adhesion (DOLLY12 MuSCs) to
our in-house zein scaffolds immediately following cell seeding in serum
containing media and ACF media (see here). We observed poor adhesion to
electrospun zein and zein/gluten scaffolds from matrixmeats (see here).
However, we have not yet tested whether DOLLY12 MuSCs will adhere to
nanofibrous gelatin or zein scaffolds from Gelatex (a company who provide
nanofibrous scaffolds produced by a method which is a cheaper alternative to
electrospinning).  

RESULTS SUMMARY:  
  
Scaffold confluence of 60% or over was achieved for all scaffold conditions
(zein or gelatin) in either ACF or serum containing media following 24h of
cell culture and was maintained until d14.  
  

CONCLUSIONS: We found that nanofibrous zein and gelatin were capable of
supporting high scaffold confluence ~70% after 14 days in differentiation
medium, when seeded in either ACF or serum containing media.  

NEXT STEPS: Despite the promising findings, due to poor sensory testing (zein)
and animal based nature (gelatin) we will not continue to pursue zein or
gelatin scaffold materials. However, we will continue our relationship with
Gelatex by requesting alternative nanofibrous scaffolds, made using animal
free or recombinant materials.  

  


