

Experimental setup

F_DOLLY12 (Sheep Fibroblast) cells were sorted into 6 x 384-well plates that
had been gelatin coated.

Each plate was filled with 100% fresh growth media in columns 1-12, and 1:1
fresh:conditioned media (supernatant from confluent flasks) in columns 13-24.

3 of the plates were sorted with cells that had been Hoechst and Propidium
Iodide stained.

3 of the plates were sorted with cells that had not been stained and were
sorted based on forward and side scatter on the FACS (fluorescence activated
cell sorter).

Initial screening

All plates were scanned on the Zaber at Days 1, 2, 3, and 7 post-sort and the
images were run through the existing  machine learning (ML) model for
obtaining automated cell counts.

See picklists information here:

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-rset_nxJpjrijs58CncU-
EytSG60Ul2BU_ocRJCizo/edit#gid=51874976

At Day 7 post-sort, this graph was generated to demonstrate the total number
of wells within each condition where the model counted >30 cells within each
well.

This graph indicates that adding gelatin coating and/or the addition of FGF in
media increases clonal survival and proliferation. Additionally, the threshold
of '>30' cells is much higher than the threshold of 'â‰¥ 15' cells for the
previous clone run (EPIC20859). Despite the higher threshold, the conditions
tested seem to have yielded more clones that could be taken to the next stage
(96 wp). However there were limitations with the ML model so we cannot
conclude any direct correlation between experimental conditions and number
clones produced with these results.

311 clones were passaged from 384 wp to 96 wp using OT2. Although a 40 minute
tryple incubation was used, some cells remained attached to their original
plate, whereas others did not. The protocol that was used for this passage
(Passage384-E) does not add growth media to the tryplised cells before mixing.
Instead, it just mixes the tryplised cells and then moves them to a new well
containing growth media. By adding growth media before mixing, the total
volume of the well would increase and allow better mixing. This has been
implemented in the next version of the one-well protocol ('Passage384-F').

Clonal expansion

Clones in 96 well plates were stained with Hoechst 33342 ReadyFlow reagent
with the aim of obtaining more accurate cell counts. 24 h later, they were
passaged to 24 well plates on OT2.

After the passage, it was observed that cells in the original 96 wp appeared
dead. Because phase images had not been taken before the passage, it is
difficult to confirm that this cell death occurred before the passage.
However, it is likely that cells had died due to the presence of Hoechst in
wells over an extended period. The harmful effect of Hoechst ReadyFlow on
viability when used over 24 h was confirmed with another experiment
(EPIC24301).

The cells that had already been passaged were kept in culture in case any
clones had survived. Out of the 24 clones in the 24 wp, only 7 had viable
cells.  2 of these were expanded to a 6 wp. However, all these clones
eventually senesced while still in well plates. No clones were expanded to T
flasks.

Key Findings

Gelatin coating of plates and addition of FGF to media may result in increased
survival and proliferation of clones.

311 clones were passaged from 384 wp to 96 wp on OT2.

Hoechst ReadyFlow reagent used over 24 h likely affected the viability of
cells.

No clonal cell lines that achieved immortalisation were created.

Limitations

There were no macros for counting Hoechst stained cells from images of whole
wells of 384 wp or 96 well plate at this time. Therefore, images of the centre
of the well were used to when obtaining cell counts for 96 well plate.

Cells that were left behind in wells versus how many were transferred to the
new plate were not quantified. So, it's difficult to determine the extent to
which clones were affected by OT2 protocols.

Due to inaccuracies in the ML model (at both low and high confluence of
cells), the results can not be used for making any conclusions about the
effect of using gelatin coating plates and adding FGF to media.

Future directions

Collect more data for ML model by imaging Hoechst stained cells on phase on
DAPI channel (EPIC25398).

Investigate the effect of Hoechst staining on cell viability (EPIC24301).

The effect of gelatin and FGF on fibroblast single cell cloning will need to
be investigated again.

Set up a suspension cloning pipeline.

Next time, protocol 'Passage384-F' should be used for passaging from 384 wp to
96 wp as this protocol adds media to neutralise tryple and mixes the cell
suspension before transferring it to a 96 wp. Better mixing should allow for
more cells to detach and be transferred to a new well.


