

Process:

1\. Pre-load the designed 96>24 well plate 1-well picking protocol in the
Opentrons software.

2\. Aliquot 5 mL of the desired media required for the media runs and place in
water bath to warm up 09:36

  1. Growth media used was CD CHO + 10%KSR + 1:100 ACA + 4mM L-glutamine

3\. Set up the Opentrons deck according to the layout prescribed in the
designed protocol (See here)

4\. Perform a dry run without any reagents to confirm that the protocol works
as expected. Also note down the time it takes for the Opentrons to complete
the entire process, from the moment it moves to retrieve a tip to the moment
it then dispenses that tip. This will be used as a benchmark before we make
adjustment to improve the protocol.

  1. Total time taken: 42 seconds for 1-well

5\. Add 200 uL of growth media to well A1-A12 of the 96 well plate. These
wells will be used to test to Opentrons settings such as aspiration height,
dispense speed etc.

6\. Perform the Opentorns run for a single well (i.e. well A1) with the pre-
defined settings. Note down any observations or recommendations to improve the
speed/efficiency of the protocol. Again note down the time taken.

  

  

Run 1:

Observations/adjustments:

\- Aspiration/dispense speeds all adjusted to 300 uL/s

\- Included a mix step after the transfer to resuspend the cells into the
24-well plate (however the protocol would mix the media after transfering 200
uL of media and again after transfering the final 50 uL, resulting in 2 mixing
steps)

\- Aspiration height adjusted from 1 mm to 0.5 mm for the transfer step

Total time taken for 1-well: 52 seconds

Run 2:  

Observations/adjustments:

\- remove the mixing from the transfer step and included a separate mixing
step. Reduced the time taken to perform the process.

Total time taken for 1-well: 46 seconds

Run 3:  

Observations/adjustments:

\- Done to confirm results of run 2.

Total time taken for 1-well: 46 seconds

Run 4:  

Observations/adjustments:

\- performed for a total of 4 wells to determine if the time taken for a
single well is the same when the Opentrons performs the process on multiple
wells

Total time taken for 1-well: 3 min and 32 seconds for 4x 96-wells (212
seconds) - 53 seconds per well

  



7\. Repeat step 6 to refine the protocol noting down any observations and/or
adjustment made

8\. Once the protocol is finalised perform a media run for at least 4 wells,
observing if the protocol works as intended and the time taken for multiple
wells.

9\. Attach the finalised protocol below




Finalised protocol for 96>24 1-well picking for suspension cells


