

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.shortcut.com/vowfood/epic/27212?cf_workflow=500000866&ct_workflow=all&vc_group_by=day

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/appTGkDdNCLDRQpB3/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recYTY6sSCkDhqi8R?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE:  

### KR2: Characterise 2 x QMS-compliant suspension-adapted fibroblast clones
from our chosen species

KR4: Establish and run a suspension pipeline at a rate of 10,000 clones per
month

AIM/PURPOSE: Adapt existing 1-well picking protocols for 384>96>24>6 well
plates originally developed for adherent SCC to suspension conditions and
trial protocols in growth media runs to reduce OT2 picking timeframes.

HYPOTHESIS: All existing adherent 1-well picking protocols will be able to
adapted to suspension culture conditions (i.e., eliminating dPBS wash and
tryple incubation) and will result in a substantial decrease in OT2 picking
times.  

RESULTS SUMMARY:

Figure 1: Comparison of picking times for both suspension and adherent multi-
well protocols. Picking times were generated by testing the time taken for the
Opentrons to pick 25%, 50%, or 100% of the harvested plate (i.e., 96 clones
[25% of 384] for the 384>96, 48 clones [50% of 96] for the 96>24, 24 clones
[100% of 24] for the 24>6). S = suspension, A = adherent.

CONCLUSIONS:

All existing adherent single well picking protocols were successfully adapted
to suspension culture conditions. In all instances this resulted in a â‰¥ 70%
time reduction in the time taken to pick either 25%, 50% or 100% of clones
based off which harvested flask type the clones were passaged from (see figure
above). Additionally, a growth media run confirmed that the time taken to pick
96 clones (25%) from a 384 well plate took ~48 minutes, ensuing that up to ten
384 plates can be processed in a single day, greatly expanding our current
throughput compared to adherent cells. Taken together these results indicated
that the hypothesis was supported.

NEXT STEPS:

  * Evaluate all three protocols with CHO-S suspension adapted cells to determine if resuspension and transfer Opentrons steps require additional optimisation in regards to effectiveness of aspirating all cells. 
  * Continue optimising the 24>6 picking protocol to remove the remaining media. Only perform if feasible and if this picking represents a significant blocker in terms of time required to process a large number of clones.


