

## Completed by: AK




Single cell cloning (SCC) is the process by which a single cell of interest is
isolated to generate a homogenous population genetically identical to the
parent cell [1]. Recently, a optimised protocol that leveraged the
capabilities of the liquid handling Opentrons robots was developed to automate
a sufficiently large portion of the clone picking process for adherent
fibroblast cells from 384>96>24>6 well plates [2]. Due to the shift from
adherent to suspension cells the existing adherent protocols need to be
adjusted for the change in conditions. Namely as cells in suspension do not
require a dPBS wash step and consequently do not need to be treated with
tryple for cell detachment, it is necessary to remove these steps from the
existing protocols. Fortunately, due to the absence of these steps the process
by which cells in suspension are transferred into a new culture vessel during
the SCC expansion process becomes significantly easier. In addition to
adapting these existing protocols it is equally important to perform media
runs to evaluate the picking times on the OT2. It has been identified that
according to current estimates, no more than 6 384-well plates are able to be
processed in a single work day. Wherein, assuming that 96 clones from each
plate (25%) are taken forward, the total time required to complete that
operation using a single Opentrons exceeds the total hours in a working day.
Fortunately eliminating the dPBS wash and tryple incubation steps remove a
significantly large portion of the Opentrons picking times, demonstrating that
a standard 6 384-well processing will be able to be completed with a single
working day.

  

References:

[1] Longo, P.A., Kavran, J.M., Kim, M.S. and Leahy, D.J., 2014. Single cell
cloning of a stable mammalian cell line. Methods Enzymol, 536, pp.165-172.

[2] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MzY2Ni4wfDEwNjMxNy8yODIwL1RyZWVOb2RlLzIzODA2NDAyMTZ8OTMwNi4w


