

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.shortcut.com/vowfood/epic/27231/epicxxxx-single-cell-cloning-
adherent-chomp-fibroblasts?cf_workflow=500000866&ct_workflow=all

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:
https://airtable.com/appTGkDdNCLDRQpB3/tblg6twoOUgW08iLA/viwK5Elaw1pIYYJug/recPGdwqpV9Crg76g?blocks=hide

RELATED TO MILESTONE: PPP_Q4_KR2 Characterise 2 x QMS-compliant suspension-
adapted fibroblast clones from our chosen species

AIM/PURPOSE: To determine whether a fast growing single cell line can be
derived from a heterogeneous population of F_CHOMP09 cells

HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesise that we will attain ≥1 single cell line that
outperforms our current heterogeneous population of F_CHOMP09 cells in terms
of doubling rate

RESULTS SUMMARY:

  1. Adherent crocodile fibroblasts (F_CHOMP09) are able to survive the FACS process and proliferate for up to 15 days after sorting
  2. Hoechst 33342 is toxic to cells at 25 ug/mL and causes mass cell death within 24 hours of application. It may also impact viability and proliferation and cause mutations at lower concentrations e.g. 5 ug/mL according to literature.
  3. Initial results suggest that a number of clones did have shorter doubling times than our current heterogeneous population of F_CHOMP09 cells (e.g. ~1.5 days compared with ~2.1 days)
  4. A lab book template for staining live cells in 384-well plates with Hoechst 33342 was created to prevent future errors from occurring. See here for template: https://au-mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Templates/NzU2LjZ8MTE3MTM1LzU4Mi9UcmVlTm9kZS8zMjAzNjY1NjQxfDE5MjAuNg==

CONCLUSIONS:

Our hypothesis was partially supported. Crocodile fibroblasts (F_CHOMP09) are
able to survive the FACS process and continue proliferating for ≥15 days after
sorting. While early results suggest that some clonal populations had faster
doubling times than our current heterogeneous population, the high
concentration of Hoechst 33342 used to stain the cells proved to be toxic, and
therefore no clonal fibroblast populations were generated from this
experiment.

NEXT STEPS:

We are currently de-prioritising adherent cell cloning in favour of suspension
cell cloning. However, given the promising results seen with improved doubling
times, it may be worthwhile repeating this clone run to generate a fast
growing crocodile fibroblast for production until we manage to adapt cells to
suspension culture.

In the meantime, Lily will discuss with engineering the potential for
developing a cell counting macro with a cytoplasmic stain e.g. CMFDA rather
than Hoechst. Cytoplasmic stains are safer to use for live cells as they do
not enter the nucleus and therefore do not interfere with DNA synthesis and
replication.

If it is possible to develop a cell count macro using a cytoplasmic stain,
Lily will plan an experiment comparing the impact of Hoechst vs CMFDA on cell
proliferation rate and viability over time.


