

# Aim:

To assess cell adhesion of DOLLY12 MuSCs on electrospun zein and zein/gluten
scaffolds

# Hypothesis:

DOLLY12 MuSC cells will adhere well (D1 proliferation) and maintain adherence
to electrospun zein and zein/gluten scaffolds at seeding densities of 0.7, 1
and 2M cells/sample (96-well size pieces) after 7 days in ACF E6
differentiation media.

# Technical Gap:

In previous experiments we have seen good cellular adhesion (DOLLY12 MuSCs) to
our in-house zein scaffolds immediately following cell seeding in serum
containing media and ACF media (see here). However, we have not yet tested
electrospun zein scaffolds, or electrospun zein/gluten scaffolds.

  




Overview:

Electrospun zein and zein/gluten scaffolds from matrix meats in either a pre-
wetted or dry state will be seeded with 0.5, 1 or 2M DOLLY12 MuSC
cells/scaffold. The cell seeding efficiency and scaffold confluency will then
be assessed on both day 1 of proliferation and d7 of differentiation using
hoechst (live cells) and DAPI (on fixed cells) respectively.  

NOTE - The Electrospun scaffolds from matrixmeats come in a 96-well plate
format, pre-sterilised with UV so no preparation or pre-sterilisation
treatment of the scaffolds is required.

  

12 runs/conditions

n=4

n=4 (x4) of 0.7M samples = 11.2M cells

n=4 (x4) of 1M samples = 16M cells

n=4 (x4) of 2M samples = 32M cells

48 SAMPLES

~60M cells total (ACF)

Serum controls seeded with 1M cells each:

  

n=4 zein wet. = 4M

n=4 zein dry = 4M

n=4 zein/gluten wet = 4M

n=4 zein/gluten wet = 4M

16 SAMPLES

= 16M cells for + controls (serum)

  

= 76M cells overall.

  

  

# Method:

27/04/21  Cell thaw

27/04/21-09/05/2021 Continual cell culture

Expand cells until target quantity is acquired: 65-70M cells (~5x 4CFs)

See following spreadsheet for calculations on target cell number: link here  

07/04/21  Plate scaffolds ready for seeding

Move samples from original UV sterilised 96-well plate provided by matrixmeats
to a new non-treated 96-well plate using sterilise tweezers in the BSC, as
follows:

Add 250ul of relevant media (ACF or D/F +20% FBS + 1X P/S) to each of the
'wet' zein or zein/gluten scaffolds (on both plates), leave the dry samples
without media.

Plate 1 (cell-laden):

Plate 2 (cell-free):

  

10/05/21 Harvest and scaffold seeding (DO Proliferation)

1-2 hours prior to seeding remove the media supernatent from all 'wet' samples
on both plates and leave plates with lid ajar until seeding.

Seed scaffolds based on the images as follows:

Seeding samples with 3 different seeding densities 0.7M, 1M, 2M cells per
samples in 2 different media types either ACF 10C or D/F +20% FBS + 1X P/S.  
  
Seed all samples with 50ul of cell/media suspension, and 'seed' all cell-free
samples on plate 2 with 50ul of relevant media only.

  

Plate 1:

  

  

Plate 2 (cell-free):

  

11/05/2021 D1 Prolif move samples to new 96w plates, 100% feed with respective
growth media (ACF or serum)  

DAY 1 Stain and Imaging with Hoechst:  

Using sterile tweezers in the BSC move all cell-laden samples to new replicate
96-well plates, containing 200ul of the respective pre-warmed media containing
HOECHST.  

For the cell-free plate just remove media and add pre-warmed Hoechst media to
each well.

Remove Hoechst media and add 50ul of pre-warmed respective media (ACF of
serum) to each well for imaging.  

Image all samples on the Zaber.

Flip all samples in the BSC.

Image again on the Zaber.

NOTE- CELLS ARE BEING KEPT ON FOR CONTINUAL CULTURE SO KEEP SAMPLES STERILE
AND TRY TO REDUCE TIME OUT OF THE INCUBATOR  

Day 1 continual culture:  

Remove 100% of the media from each well and replace with 250ul of respective
pre-warmed media (ACF or serum) and return plates to the incubator (37'C,
5%CO2)  
  

11/05/2021 D1 Prolif - Tryplisation of D1 sample wells for cell seed
efficiency calculations

Add 100ul of PBS to each well in the now empty cell-laden 96-well plate (wash
step)

Remove PBS from all wells and add 50ul of Tryple to each well, place plate in
the incubator for 10-15min until cells lifted

Zein scaffolds:

Harvest and pool cells from n=4 wells which contained the cell-laden zein only
scaffolds seeded with 0.7M cells on wet scaffolds and count cells

Harvest and pool cells from n=4 wells which contained the cell-laden zein only
scaffolds seeded with 1M cells on wet scaffolds and count cells on wet
scaffolds

Harvest and pool cells from n=8 wells which contained the cell-laden zein only
scaffolds seeded with 2M cells on wet scaffolds and count cells

REPEAT FOR DRY ZEIN SCAFFOLDS

Zein/gluten scaffolds:

Harvest and pool cells from n=4 wells which contained the cell-laden
zein/gluten scaffolds seeded with 0.7M cells on wet scaffolds and count cells

Harvest and pool cells from n=4 wells which contained the cell-laden
zein/gluten scaffolds seeded with 1M cells on wet scaffolds and count cells

Harvest and pool cells from n=4 wells which contained the cell-laden
zein/gluten scaffolds seeded with 2M cells on wet scaffolds and count cells

REPEAT FOR DRY ZEIN/GLUTEN SCAFFOLDS  
  

Calculation:

Divide each cell count by 4 (to get number of cells/well)

Subtract value from the amount seeded per well and multiply by 100 = % seeding
efficiency for each condition  

12/05/2021 - 18/05/2021 - Daily 100% E6 Feeds

Remove 100% media supernatent from all wells and replace with pre-warmed E6 +
1X P/S to all wells on both plates.  

20/05/2021 D8 Diff - Fix, DAPI stain and Image D7 samples

Check for residual Hoechst staining on samples (just look down Axio) if the
cells are still fluorescing noticeably then leave samples with 100% daily E6
feeds until fluorescence fades.

Fix and DAPI stain all samples and assess for cellular adhesion (Can also
stain for MyoG/MF20).  

  





