

## Completed by: Bonnie Tangey




Key results

1\. There was no visible difference in confluence between F_CHOMP07 and F_
CHOMP09 MCBs.  
2\. F_CHOMP07 WCB had lower confluence than F_ CHOMP09 WCB.  
3\. There was no visible difference in confluence between F_ CHOMP09 MCB and
WCBs however CHOMP07 WCB showed lower confluence than it's MCB.  
4\. It was not possible to compare F_ CHOMP09 WCB cells cultured in fresh
growth factors compared to a thawed 'bullet' because cells did not survive in
either condition.  
5\. F_ CHOMP09 WCB cells did not survive in DMEM/F12 + 20% KSR.  
6\. It was not possible to compare growth rates of F_ CHOMP09 WCB cells in ACF
media containing growth factors, compared to those containing no growth
factors (KSR only), as cells did not survive in either condition.  
7\. Very few cells survived and attached to the culture vessel in Fibrolife
media.  
  
Discussion

The Production Team recently reported a lower than expected cell yield when
culturing F_CHOMP09 in DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS. See batch report here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Production/ODQ4Ljl8MTA2NTM2LzY1My00NjI4L1RyZWVOb2RlLzc2Mjg4MjY4OXwyMTU0Ljk=.
This study supports the theory that F_CHOMP cells have a greater rate of
proliferation in 20% FBS, which they were originally cultured in during their
expansion to MCB and WCB (see lab books here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NDE4Ny4zfDEwNjMxNy8zMjIxLTI0NzI0L1RyZWVOb2RlLzc4ODA3OTIzNXwxMDYyOS4z).

F_CHOMP07 WCBs appeared to have a lower confluence at day 5 than F_CHOMP09
WCBs. If this is an accurate representation of the different cell lines growth
rates then F_CHOMP07 may perform better in long term culture. To further
investigate this question, an experiment is already underway to compare the
long term proliferative compacities of these 2 cell lines and may determine
which cells we continue to use for R & D as well as for production. See lab
book here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NjY4NC42fDEwNjMxNy81MTQyLTQyMzM4L1RyZWVOb2RlLzI0Mjg1NzI2MDl8MTY5NjguNg==.

  
Cells did not appear to proliferate well in any of our serum free media
conditions including the commercial Fibrolife media. The Fibrolife base media
was supplemented with our own growth factors (100ng each of FGF, IGF1, PDGF +
0.1% chemically defined lipid concentrate) rather that the supplement provided
by the manufacturer because we did not have it on site (they can be sold
separately). It may be worthwhile trialling F_CHOMP cells in Fibrolife with
its recommended supplement for future experiments. The growth factors
recommended by Fibrolife are listed below.  
https://www.lifelinecelltech.com/shop/culture-media/fibroblast-culture-
media/fibroblast-cell-culture-medium-serum-free-ll-0001/  
  
  
limitations  
Due to cells being washed from the vessels during fixation an dapi staining,
it was not possible to obtain cell counts or to determine proliferation rates.
We were therefore limited to comparing phase contrast images between
conditions. In addition, only 1 well from each condition was imaged on phase
contrast prior to fixation, meaning we do not have any replicates. Images from
day 5 were used because the images take on the final day of the study were of
poor quality.  
  
Conclusions  
This study will need to be replicated, and quantitative data obtained before
any concrete conclusions can be made. It does appear likely however that 20%
FBS supplementation supports a greater rate of proliferation in both of our
CHOMP cell lines than supplementation with 10% FBS. It is also apparent that
CHOMP cells do not thrive in our current ACF media formulation, or in
Fibrolife base media supplemented with growth factors.  
  
Future Directions  
The ACF media formulations used in this study do not appear to support
survival and proliferation of either of our F_CHOMP cell lines. If serum free
culture is a priority for Vow, an alternative media will need to be sourced or
developed for use with our F_CHOMP cells.  
  
The assay should be repeated in order to acquire quantitative results from
which we can determine the statistical significance of findings. Staining with
Hoechst instead of Dapi, which does not require fixation, may allow us to
mitigate the risk of cell loss. Alternatively, Vowsers have reported less cell
loss by performing the entire fixing and dapi staining protocol on the
Opentrons, rather than by fixing by hand.  


