

Key Findings

  1. Fibroblasts in DMEM/F12 + 10-20% KSR appeared to proliferate faster than those in DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS medium, based on micrographs. However, the formation of cell sheets during growth made a single cell suspension impossible to achieve, and therefore no cell count could be obtained. This sheet formation is likely a result of the vitamin C content of KSR. 
  2. Fibroblasts in medium containing DMEM/F12 + 10-20% KSR did not re-adhere after passaging, and subsequently died 
  3. Fibroblasts in DMEM/F12 + 5% KSR + 5% FBS medium had a greater proliferative ability than those in DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS medium
  4. Fibroblast proliferative ability declined after FBS concentration fell below 5%. Fibroblasts in DMEM/F12 + 9% KSR + 1% FBS ceased proliferating.  
  5. Fibroblasts were unable to be successfully adapted to serum-free medium using KSR. 




Discussion

In order to feed billions of people, we need to produce cells at mass scale.
Achieving this with adherent cultures is expensive and inefficient. We
therefore need to adapt our anchorage-dependent, primary cells to grow in
suspension culture.

Foetal bovine serum (FBS) is a constituent of most media used for the culture
of animal cells, however, it is imperative that we move away from this
ingredient at Vow. For one, it is an animal-derived product, and therefore
does not align with our ethical goal to produce a product grown in entirely
xeno-free medium. For another, FBS contains proteins such as fibronectin and
vitronectin which actively encourage cell adhesion [1], thereby further
inhibiting suspension adaptation.

There are multiple approaches to adapting cells to grow in serum-free medium
and suspension culture. The method trialled in this experiment was adapting
cells to serum-free growth medium in adherent culture, before transferring
cells to suspension culture. We used Knockout Serum Replacement (KSR) for this
adaption: a defined, xeno-free, commercially available product designed to
replace FBS.

In the initial trial, sheep fibroblasts (F_DOLLY12) were thawed directly into
DMEM/F12 + 20% KSR. Before the first passage, cells appeared to be healthy and
had grown to ~80% confluence (figure 1). During the dPBS wash and tryplisation
steps, it became clear that the cells had formed a sheet while growing (figure
2), and were impossible to break up into a single-cell suspension. We were
thereby unable to procure an accurate cell count. Furthermore, cells that were
re-plated after passaging did not remain viable (figure 3), and so the culture
was discarded. It was hypothesised that the formation of sheets was due to the
presence of ascorbic acid 2-PO4 (vitamin C) in KSR [2]. Vitamin C up-regulates
the expression of extracellular matrix such as collagen, which promotes cell
to cell adhesion [3]. The low survival rate of cells in 20% KSR medium after
being passaged is likely due to their inability to firmly re-adhere to the
cell-culture surface while suspended in a cell sheet.

For the second trial, the percentage of KSR in the growth medium was reduced
to 10% to reduce the concentration of Vitamin C. A slow adaptation approach
was also trialled by gradually decreasing FBS concentration while
simultaneously increasing KSR concentration. F_DOLLY12 cells were thawed into
two conditions: DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS and DMEM/F12 + 10% KSR. As seen in the
first trial, fibroblasts thawed directly into 10% KSR appeared healthy on
microscopic examination and grew to ~90% confluence (figure 4). In fact, they
appeared to grow faster than cells in 10% FBS medium; within the same
timeframe FBS cells had reached ~80% confluence (figure 5). However once
again, the cells in KSR medium formed a sheet during the passage, and did not
remain viable after re-plating. The fibroblasts in 10% FBS medium were split
into 4 flasks: 2 x DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS (control) and 2 x DMEM/F12 + 5% FBS + 5%
KSR (slow adaption). At every second passage, the ratio of KSR:FBS in slow
adaption conditions was increased, until it reached 9:1 (9% KSR, 1% FBS).
Fibroblasts in slow adaptation conditions initially outperformed fibroblasts
in control conditions in terms of proliferative ability (figure 6). After
being introduced to medium with 7.5% KSR + 2.5% FBS, their rate of
proliferation decreased below that of control conditions. At 9% KSR and 1%
FBS, the fibroblasts stopped proliferating entirely.

Some of our observations and results line up with what is reported in the
literature. Jukic et al (2015) adapted adherent rCHO cells to serum-free
conditions by gradual reduction of FBS content from 10% to 5% to 3% and
finally 1%. They found that cell viability dropped below 90% once the FBS
concentration fell to 1%, and so transferred the CHO cells from DMEM to HyQ
CCM5CHO medium with 0% FBS in suspension. Cell viability improved after this
change, and after 50 days stable growth characteristics were observed. This
finding suggests that: 1. DMEM may be unsuitable as a basal medium for low-
serum media and 2. cells that are not performing well in serum-free adherent
conditions may improve when transferred to suspension culture. We were unable
to find any evidence in the literature of cell sheet formation in KSR medium.




Limitations

  1. Lack of bandwidth to repeat experiment with an alternative basal medium to DMEM or to move cells to suspension culture at an earlier point in the adaptation 




Conclusion

Fibroblasts in adherent culture were unable to be successfully adapted to
serum-free medium using Knockout Serum Replacement.




Future Directions

Since the conclusion of this experiment, we have seen success in our
suspension cultures with KSR medium (suspension trial #7). It therefore seems
that KSR is more suitable for use in suspension culture where passaging with a
dissociation is not required. For future experiments, adherent cells will not
be grown in KSR without at least 5% FBS supplementation prior to being moved
to suspension culture.




References

[1] E. G. Hayman, M. D. Pierschbacher, S. Suzuki, E. Ruoslahti. 1985.
Vitronectin--a major cell attachment-promoting protein in fetal bovine serum.
National Library of Medicine.

[2] Ingredients of KSR:
https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/_Composition_of_Knockout_Serum_Replacement_/611010

[3] F. L. Wei, C. Y. Qu, T. L. Song, G. Ding, Z. P. Fan, D. Y. Liu, Y. Liu, C.
M. Zhang, S. Shi, S. L. Wang. 2011. Vitamin C treatment promotes mesenchymal
stem cell sheet formation and tissue regeneration by elevating telomerase
activity. J Cell Physiol.


