

Process:

1\. Pre-load the designed 24>6 well plate 1-well picking protocol in the
Opentrons software.

2\. Aliquot 5 mL of the desired media required for the media runs and place in
water bath to warm up 16:30

  1. Growth media used was CD CHO + 10%KSR + 1:100 ACA + 4mM L-glutamine

3\. Set up the Opentrons deck according to the layout prescribed in the
designed protocol (See here)

4\. Perform a dry run without any reagents to confirm that the protocol works
as expected. Also note down the time it takes for the Opentrons to complete
the entire process, from the moment it moves to retrieve a tip to the moment
it then dispenses that tip. This will be used as a benchmark before we make
adjustment to improve the protocol.

  1. Total time taken: 

5\. Add 500 uL of growth media to well A1-A6 of the 24 well plate. These wells
will be used to test to Opentrons settings such as aspiration height, dispense
speed etc.

6\. Perform the Opentorns run for a single well (i.e. well A1) with the pre-
defined settings. Note down any observations or recommendations to improve the
speed/efficiency of the protocol. Again note down the time taken.

  

  

Run 1:

Observations/adjustments:

\- Aspiration/dispense speeds all adjusted to 1000 uL/s

\- Included a mix step after the transfer to resuspend the cells into the
6-well plate

\- Aspiration height adjusted from 1 mm to 0.5 mm for the transfer step

Total time taken for 1-well: 43 seconds

Run 2:  

Observations/adjustments:

\- performed with growth media

\- lots of bubble formation when aspirating 450 uL, also pipette tip could
aspirate any media at 0.5 mm from the base of the 24-well

Time taken for 1-well: 43 seconds

Run 3:  

Observations/adjustments:

\- Aspiration height of 0.5 mm during the transfer step was adjusted to 1mm.

\- Volume aspiration during the first mixing step was lowered to 350 uL- still
too much foaming

Time taken for 1-well: 43 seconds

Run 4:  

Observations/adjustments:

\- Volume aspiration during the first mixing step was lowered to 300 uL-
resulted in less bubbles however a significant amount of liquid is left behind
following the final aspiration

Time taken for 1-well: 43 seconds

Run 5:  

Observations/adjustments:

\- Aspiration height was readjusted to 0.5 mm however about 100 uL of media is
left remaining in the 24 well- likely due the hgiher surface are of the well
with the media spread evely across it.

\- Requires further troubleshooting

  



7\. Repeat step 6 to refine the protocol noting down any observations and/or
adjustment made

8\. Once the protocol is finalised perform a media run for at least 4 wells,
observing if the protocol works as intended and the time taken for multiple
wells.

9\. Attach the finalised protocol below




Finalised protocol for 24>6 1-well picking for suspension cells

Note* Not currently finalised- requires additional troubleshooting


