

Perform thaw using below volumes:

  




## Performed by: Eva  




Passage Culture IDs

Vial ID thawedSeeded Flask ID(s)Seeded Flask Type  
  
1820-Culture-4410-Vial-81of87

DOLLY12 MCB  

8866-DOLLY12-Sheep P6-1of3

8867-DOLLY12-Sheep P6-2of3'

8868-DOLLY12-Sheep P6-3of3

3 x T175  
2250-Culture-6066-Vial-51of74  
DOLLY12 WCB  

8857-DOLLY12 -Sheep P9-1of3

8861-DOLLY12 -Sheep P9-2of3

8862-DOLLY12 -Sheep P9-3of3

3 x T175  
  
2882-Culture-6905-Vial-21of54  
C2C12  

8863-C2C12-Mouse P4-1of3

8864-C2C12-Mouse P4-2of3

8865-C2C12-Mouse P4-3of3

3 x T175  


  
  
Media/Reagents used:

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
0.1% gelatin solutionM7509  
  
Growth MediaA7520  
  
p38i (20mM stock)M7354  
  
  
###  

  




  
  

Prepare materials for thaw and seed:

  * NOTE: IF PERFORMING A THAW FROM A CLONAL MCB_2 OR WCB_2, PREPARE AT LEAST ONE EXTRA 96 WELL PLATE FOR A DIFFERENTIATION ASSAY. THIS IS AN IMPORTANT QUALITY CONTROL STEP WHILE WE BUILD OUR CLONAL CELL BANK.
  * Suggested layout for diff assay (please refer to previous diff assays for exact seeding, feeding and analysis procedures)  

  * 

1\. Gelatin coated  9  x  T175  flasks/plates with sterile filtered 0.1%
gelatin solution and then incubated all coated flasks at 37ºC

  * Time when all flasks placed into the incubator   13:20 - 14:30 pm 

2\. Aliquotted the required volume of each reagent in the table above and then
placed all aliquots to warm in the water bath for a minimum of 20 minutes
prior to use:

  *  Growth media (for seeding):   3 x 90 mL 
  * Time that aliquot was placed in the water bath to warm before use:  13:50 - a/pm 

  




##  DOLLY12 MCB

## Thaw and seed vial:

3\. Collected the cryovial from Liquid Nitrogen storage & place in foam
floater in water bath for 5 min  16:37 - 16:42 pm

Location where cryovial was collected from:

Vial details:  1  x  DOLLY12 MCB  cryovials at   500 K  cells each for a total
of   500 K  cells

Brew

Tower/Bucket #6  

Box/Cane #5  

Vial location:H9

Vial ID(s):1820  

`4. Ethanol sprayed & transferred the vial(s) to the BSC.`

`5.  Added  500 µL of Growth Media (to generate a total volume of 1mL in the
cryovial) to the cryovial, resuspended the cell suspension gently to reduce
osmotic shock. `

`6. Collected the entire 1mL of cell suspension & transfer into the pre-warmed
tube of Growth Media. `

`7. Using a 10mL serological pipette, resuspended & distributed the cells
evenly in the   90 mL of pre-warmed Growth Media (prepared in Step 2). `

`8. Transfered  30 mL to each pre-coated  T175  flask/well, allow to rest in
the BSC at RT for 30 min  16:51 - : a/pm `

`9. Transfered flask/plate(s) to incubate at: `

  * [X]  37ºC, 5% CO2 (mammalian cells)
  * [ ]  40ºC, 5% CO2 (aviary cells)

## DOLLY12 WCB

## Thaw and seed vial:

3\. Collected the cryovial from Liquid Nitrogen storage & place in foam
floater in water bath for 5 min  14:42 - 14:47 pm

Location where cryovial was collected from:

Vial details:  1   x  DOLLY12 WCB  cryovials at  500 K  cells each for a total
of   500 K  cells

Brew

Tower/Bucket #2  

Box/Cane #1  

Vial location: F6  

Vial ID(s): 2250  

`4. Ethanol sprayed & transferred the vial(s) to the BSC.`

`5.  Added  500 µL of Growth Media (to generate a total volume of 1mL in the
cryovial) to the cryovial, resuspended the cell suspension gently to reduce
osmotic shock. `

`6. Collected the entire 1mL of cell suspension & transfer into the pre-warmed
tube of Growth Media. `

`7. Using a 10mL serological pipette, resuspended & distributed the cells
evenly in the  90 mL of pre-warmed Growth Media (prepared in Step 2). `

`8. Transfered   30 mL to each pre-coated  T175  flask/well, allow to rest in
the BSC at RT for 30 min  15:01 - 15:31 pm `

`9. Transfered flask/plate(s) to incubate at: `

  * [X]  37ºC, 5% CO2 (mammalian cells)
  * [ ]  40ºC, 5% CO2 (aviary cells)

Making labels

Note - You will need to increase the passage number by one. (i.e. if your
thawed vial ID has a passage number of 3, when you make a culture ID for you
vessel you will need change the passage number to 4 on Airtable.)

## C2C12

## Thaw and seed vial:

3\. Collected the cryovial from Liquid Nitrogen storage & place in foam
floater in water bath for 5 min  15:22 - 15:27 pm

Location where cryovial was collected from:

Vial details:  1   x  C2C12  cryovials at  500 K  cells each for a total of
500 K  cells

Brew

Tower/Bucket #2  

Box/Cane #6  

Vial location:C3

Vial ID(s):2882-Culture-6905-Vial-21of54

`4. Ethanol sprayed & transferred the vial(s) to the BSC.`

`5.  Added  500 µL of Growth Media (to generate a total volume of 1mL in the
cryovial) to the cryovial, resuspended the cell suspension gently to reduce
osmotic shock. `

`6. Collected 800uL of cell suspension & transfer into the pre-warmed tube of
Growth Media. `

`7. Using a 10mL serological pipette, resuspended & distributed the cells
evenly in the  90 mL of pre-warmed Growth Media (prepared in Step 2). `

`8. Transfered  30 mL to each pre-coated  T175  flask/well, allow to rest in
the BSC at RT for 30 min  15:34 - 16:04 pm `

`9. Transfered flask/plate(s) to incubate at: `

  * [X]  37ºC, 5% CO2 (mammalian cells)
  * [ ]  40ºC, 5% CO2 (aviary cells)

  




SOPs used:

  * Thaw/Revival Template_V3

  

Summary:

Thawed 1 vial of DOLLY12 MCB, WCB and C2C12




Relevant Images/Figures:

n/a


