

While it is hard to be prescriptive with what a report should contain, there
are a few common points that all reports should consider. A report should
(almost) replicate the "Discussion" section of a journal article. The
following is a ROUGH guide with a suggested paragraph structure. PLEASE ensure
to include references to previously published work (or links to work conducted
here at Vow).

  1. What is the most important overarching finding? 
  2. A brief discussion of all results and how they fit into our final goal of producing an edible meat product (this section might be several paragraphs long and should put the results into the context of what has been done before). 
  3. Any limitations of the study, why might our results not be correct? 
  4. What is the overall conclusion? 
  5. Discussion of future directions.

***PLEASE NOTE, YOUR REPORT SHOULD BE FINALISED WITHIN TWO WEEKS OF COMPLETING
ALL EXPERIMENTAL WORK.***  

  


Brief background


Introduction/Background:

An imperative issue in cultured meat engineering is the monumental task of
growing large numbers of muscle stem cells (MuSC) while retaining cell
morphologies and characteristics. Possibly the most important characteristic
of muscle stem cells that needs to be retained, is the cell's ability to
further proliferate, differentiate and mature once expanded. While traditional
adherent cell culture methods have been of large benefit to Vow and have
proven time and time again to retain the aforementioned quality of our MuSCs,
they are hindered by the surface area/volume ratio. For example, a 4-layer
cell factory (4CF) used regularly by the Production team to expand large
quantities of cells at a time only presents 2528 cm^2 of surface area to seed
and proliferate MuSCs. The microcarrier is the dominant technology used to
increase adherent surface area in industrial (>2000 L) cultures. Microcarriers
are microscopic spherical particles with a typical diameter of 200 microns.
Non-porous microcarriers are most common, with a surface area of ~0.001 cm2.
They are typically used at concentrations of 10 - 40 cm2/mL, which is 2 - 8
times greater than typical planar cultureware.


Key results


The clone DOLLY12_11E7 was expanded from post-clone master cell bank (MCB_2)
to post-clone working cell bank (WCB_2). The expansion was achieved using both
planar and microcarrier culture, from 4.8 million cells seeded into 1 x 4CF
and 7.8 million seeded into 3 x E125 flasks (https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MTk2LjN8MTA2MzE3LzE1MS9UcmVlTm9kZS8xMzAwNjk1OTQxfDQ5OC4yOTk5OTk5OTk5OTk5NQ==).

After three days of proliferation, the cells counts reached over 22.9 million
in the 1 x 4CF and 6.5 million in 3 x E125 flasks (https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/MjcxLjd8MTA2MzE3LzIwOS9UcmVlTm9kZS85MjA2ODU2NTd8Njg5LjY5OTk5OTk5OTk5OTk=).

A differentiation assay was also performed; however, the results were
inconclusive (see Figures 2, 3 and 4), showing very few MyoG positive events
and even fewer MF20 positive events.




  

  

Figure 1: Micrographs of DOLLY12_11E7 cells stained with Hoechst 33342 on
Cytodex 1 microcarriers from flask 6307. Micrographs captured using a Basler
camera attached to a Zeiss Axiovert microscope with 5x objective. Images (a)
and (b) were taken using the phase contrast settings, images (c) and (d) were
taken using the DAPI settings.  






Figure 2: Fluorescence micrographs of DOLLY12_11E7 clonal MuSC from well B3 of
plate 6370. Cells were stained for nucleic acid, MyoG and MF20. Micrographs
captured on the Zaber robotic microscopy platform with 5x objective. Images
(b) and (d) are digitally enlarged regions of images (a) and (c) respectively.  



  

Figure 3: Fluorescence micrographs of DOLLY12_11E7 clonal MuSC from well C2 of
plate 6370. Cells were stained for nucleic acid, MyoG and MF20. Micrographs
captured on the Zaber robotic microscopy platform with 5x objective. Images
(b) and (d) are digitally enlarged regions of images (a) and (c) respectively.  



  

Figure 4: Fluorescence micrographs of DOLLY12_11E7 clonal MuSC from well C4 of
plate 6370. Cells were stained for nucleic acid, MyoG and MF20. Micrographs
captured on the Zaber robotic microscopy platform with 5x objective. Images
(b) and (d) are digitally enlarged regions of images (a) and (c) respectively.  



  


Discussion


The poor harvest from the 3 x E125 flasks was likely due to extensive losses
during the harvest, not due to poor proliferation or cell death. The
micrographs taken after harvest (Figure 1(a) and (c)) clearly show many cells
loosely attached to the microcarriers. A manual count of the before and after
images in Figure 1 gives an estimated 7.3 cells/microcarrier before and 3.4
cells/microcarrier after, which means that approximately 46% of cells were not
recovered from the microcarriers.

In figures 2, 3 and 4, the red fluorescent stain (secondary Ab for MF20
conjugated with AF555) was observed to colocalize with the blue fluorescent
stain (DAPI nucleic acid dye), while the green fluorescent stain (secondary Ab
for MyoG conjugated with AF488) was observed not to overlap with any blue
fluorescent events. This is the opposite of what was expected as MyoG is a
transcription factor which should co-localize with the DAPI-stained, DNA-
filled nucleus. It is possible that during the image acquisition, the channels
were swapped (colors were applied according to channel names during post-
processing, NOT during image acquisition). It should be assumed that the red
stain represents MyoG and the green stain represents MF20 in Figures 2, 3 and
4.

There were very few MyoG or MF20 positive events in these cells on day 6 of
differentiation. Based upon the pre-cloning differentiation behavior of the
DOLLY12 heterogeneous myogenic primary cells, MF20-stained myotubes should be
obvious by day 6 (see previous work https://www.notion.so/vow/Results-
Conclusion-7a77cdbd0b334352a03003311e27bbac). The low frequency of MyoG
positive cells may indicate a low differentiation potential. The even lower
frequency of MF20 positive areas may indicate the absence of fusion but not
necessarily differentiation. This result is unexpected because the cells are
clonal and should therefore display extremely similar behavior. It is possible
that proliferation on microcarriers is selecting for cells that have drifted
from the original clonal genotype; however, this type of effect is usually
observed over months or years of subculturing (Ben-david et al., 2019). An
alternative explanation for the low MyoG and MF20 staining is that the cells
were not completely permeabilized and the antibody stains therefore could not
penetrate the cell to bind to their targets.


Limitations


No staining control was used, so problems in the staining protocol cannot be
ruled out as the cause of the negative differentiation staining result. The
differentiation assay is therefore inconclusive; differentiation and fusion
cannot be confirmed.


Conclusion


The clonal DOLLY12_11E7 line was successfully expanded from a MCB_2 cryovial
(~500,000 cells) by both planar and microcarrier culture to over 30 million
cells after harvest, which were banked to produce 60 WCB_2 cryovials for later
use. However, poor harvest efficiencies of 50-60% from the microcarrier
cultures reduced the total amount of cells that were recovered for the WCB_2.
Furthermore, the concurrent differentiation assay failed to demonstrate normal
differentiation and fusion. It can be concluded that the DOLLY12_11E7 line
maintains pre-cloning proliferative capacity but it is not clear if it
maintains pre-cloning differentiation capacity.


Future Direction(s)


There are three changes that should be made to protocols for future clone
expansion experiments:

  1. Increase the fraction of cells cultured in microcarrier culture to account for slower growth and/or losses during harvesting. This will require additional vials to be thawed or expansion over a longer period of time.
  2. Fix differentiation plates at day 3-4 and day 6-7 as a MINIMUM requirement for observing differentiation and fusion. OR, fix only after at least 7 days and stain only for fusion.
  3. If possible, fix and stain control plates of differentiated C2C12 cells to help confirm or eliminate staining errors as the source of negative fluorescence signals.


References


Ben-david, U., Siranosian, B., Ha, G., Tang, H., Oren, Y., Strathdee, C. A.,
Dempster, J., Lyons, N. J., Burns, R., Nag, A., Kugener, G., Cimini, B.,
Tsvetkov, P., Maruvka, Y. E., Garrity, A., Tubelli, A. A., Bandopadhayay, P.,
Vazquez, F., Wong, B., â€¦ Chase, C. (2019). HHS Public Access. 560(7718),
325-330\. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0409-3.Genetic


