

## Completed by: Nathan Hawkins & Bec Screnci


Aim/Purpose


To investigate what impact UVA/UVB irradiation in the presence of a p53
inhibitors will have on long term F_DOLLY12_3P23 & F_NANDO3 cell longevity.  


Hypothesis


We hypothesis that cells exposured to UVA/UVB irradiation in the presence of
p53 inhibitor will have better chances of surviving our single cell cloning
pipeline. We expect to see more clones reach our 96 well plate stage expansion
stage of our cloning pipeline compared to cells that have not received any
UVA/UVB irradiation or exposure to p53 inhibitors.


Technical Gap


Being able to produce a high performing and long lasting clonal cell line that
doesn't show decreases in proliferative capacity is vital to our mission. We
currently do not have a cell line that meets this criteria, therefore we
cannot produce cell mass at a large enough scale to feed billions simply
because our cell lines will expire after a finite number of deivisions. This
experiment aims to employ UV mutagenesis strategy to produce a long lasting
clonal cell line that will hopefully give support endless biomass production,
allowing us to reach any desirable scale for production.


Method/Procedure


Note* This plan from TRIAL 1 has been adapted here for cultures in 6-well
plates, to increase replicate efficiency and reduce cell demand.

  

  

Day 1 post-mutagenesis: 1 day after irradiation dose, observe plates, zaber
scan for digital record to examine cell death, record observations then return
cultures to incubate at 37 degrees, 5% Co2.

Day 2 post-mutagenesis: 1 day after irradiation dose, observe plates, zaber
scan for digital record to examine cell death, record observations then return
cultures to incubate at 37 degrees, 5% Co2.

  * 50% Feed (with/without p53i as per conditions stated above)

Day 3 post-mutagenesis: 1 day after irradiation dose, observe plates, zaber
scan for digital record to examine cell death, record observations then return
cultures to incubate at 37 degrees, 5% Co2.

Day 4 post-mutagenesis: 1 day after irradiation dose, observe plates, zaber
scan for digital record to examine cell death, record observations then return
cultures to incubate at 37 degrees, 5% Co2.

  * 50% Feed (with/without p53i as per conditions stated above)  

Day 5 post-mutagenesis: 1 day after irradiation dose, observe plates, zaber
scan for digital record to examine cell death, record observations then return
cultures to incubate at 37 degrees, 5% Co2.

Day 6 post-mutagenesis: 1 day after irradiation dose, observe plates, zaber
scan for digital record to examine cell death, record observations then return
cultures to incubate at 37 degrees, 5% Co2.

  * 50% Feed (with/without p53i as per conditions stated above)

Day 7 post-mutagenesis: 1 day after irradiation dose, observe plates, zaber
scan for digital record to examine cell death, record observations then return
cultures to incubate at 37 degrees, 5% Co2.  
  

When it appears that cell death has reduced and cells are surviving (possibly
even proliferating), 4-7 days after irradiation dose, passage cells from each
plate and perform a cell count to determine cell viability (n=3). Combine
replicates from each group together into one tube after cell counting. Seed
cells into an appropriate size and number of T flasks (n=1 for each condition)
using regular growth media containing no p53 inhibitor




Phase 1:

  1. Thaw a vial of fibroblast cells into 2xT175s using DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1xP/S. (Note: If fibroblasts are in continuous culture (proceed to Phase 2 on next passage, note down passage number). 

  2. Grow cells until 70% confluent, perform 50% feed every 48 hours.

Phase 2:

  1. Passage cells then set up 12x 10cm plates at 2000 cells/cm^2 (20,000 cells per plate). (gelatin coated?)

  2. Allow all plates to grow to 70% confluence,   50% Feed ever 48 hours with growth media until confluence is reached.

  

Phase 3:  
  

  1. Once plates reach 70% confluence image plates and proceed with treatments (n=3) 

    1. Remove the growth media and wash all plates with 5mL dPBS. Split the plates into 4 groups (G1-G4)

    2. Add 10mL of fresh dPBS with/without 100uM of p53 inhibitor (Pifithrin-Î±, p-nitro, cyclic) to each plate (see table below for which plates require p53 inhibitor) PLEASE SEE THIS DOCUMENT PRIOR TO HANDLING P53 INHIBITOR

    3. GroupUV irradiation p53 inhibitor.   
G1NoNo  
G2NoYes  
G3YesNo  
G4YesYes  
    4. Inside the BSC, Wrap plates from G1 and G2 in foil and leave in the BSC. 

    5. Set up the reptile solar lamp inside the BSC at a distance that is 30cm from the plate surface, using the UV meter, detect the UV intensity emitted by the lamp and record it (mW/cm^2). Perform a calculation to determine the length of time required to generate a 600,000 J/m^2 UV energy dose using the following formulas.  
  
mW/cm2 x seconds = mj/cm2

0.1 mJ/ cm2 = 1 J/m2

    6. Remove the lids from all plates and expose all plates to 600,000 J/m^2 of UV irradiation. 

    7. Once irradiated, aspirate and discard the dPBS and replace with growth media w/wo p53 inhibitor for plates in each respective group. 

    8. Return plates to incubate at 37 degrees 5% CO2. overnight.

  2. 1 day after irradiation dose, observe plates to examine cell death, record observations then return cultures to incubate at 37 degrees, 5% Co2. 

  3. 2 days after irradiation dose, observe plates and perform a 50% media feed using growth media w/wo p53 inhibitor (100uM), leave cells for further 2 days incubating. 

Phase 4:

  1. 4 days after irradiation dose, passage cells from each plate and perform a cell count to determine cell viability (n=3). Combine replicates from each group together into one tube after cell counting. Seed cells into an appropriate size and number of T flasks (n=1 for each condition) using regular growth media containing no p53 inhibitor

  2. Monitor cultures over a further 10 days, performing 50% feeds and passaging necessary (>90% confuence), maintaining 2xT175s per condition. Discard excess cells 





