

## Completed by: LL


Aim/Purpose


To successfully adapt DOLLY12 fibroblasts to ACF-media with KSR in planar
culture before adapting them to suspension culture


Hypothesis


The DOLLY12 fibroblasts in KSR medium will initially decline in viability and
number, and then will begin proliferating once adapted to ACF-medium. The same
will happen when they are moved to suspension culture.


Technical Gap


We have previously attempted to grow cells in suspension in commercial HyClone
media (see here), however the attempt was unsuccessful; the cells did not
proliferate, and by Day 30 only a single culture remained viable. We do not
know whether this was due to cells not adapting to the suspension culture, or
not adapting to the HyClone media formulations. In this experiment, we will
therefore split the two processes, to allow the cells to pre-adapt to HyClone
media before re-attempting suspension adaptation.


Method/Procedure


Experiment plan

Stage 1: HyClone media adaptation

  1. Thaw DOLLY12 fibroblasts into 6 x T25s in D/F+10%FBS+1xP/S at ~7000 cells/cm2 
  2. On Day 1, perform a 100% media change into 6 different conditions (basal medium + 10% KSR + 10 ng/ml FGF-B + 5 ng/ml EGF + 5 ng/ml IGF):
    1. Control 
    2. CDM4 Avian 
    3. CD CHO 
    4. CDM4 HyCell
    5. CDM4CHO
    6. ActiPro
  3. Passage as needed when cells hit ~80% confluency. In cultures that  
  




The procedure for this experiment will be composed of two sections; one
following sequentially from the other. Initially DOLLY12 fibroblast cells will
need to be adapted to low serum conditions. As highlighted in the background
section this will be performed by a gradual stepwise reduction of serum
supplemented in the RPMI media. To compensate the RPMI media, hydrolysates
will be included due to their potential in supporting cells deprived of serum.

  

[D0 - Prior to suspension adaptation] Thaw and culturing of adherent DOLLY12
fibroblasts in reduced serum conditions

1\. Start with a healthy adherent DOLLY12 fibroblast cell line in current
serum containing medium (e.g. RPMI or EMEM-alpha + 10% FBS; see table below)
in T-flask culture vessels. For best results, the following recommendations
should be observed:

✓ Passage cells when 80% - 100% confluency is observed

✓ Cells should have a viability of a least 95%

✓ Cells should be feed (50%) every 3 days, 4 if unable to do every 3 days

*Ideally the cells should be thawed with the lowest passage number possible, to reduce the cells dependence on serum (i.e. and MCB vial would be preferable over a WCB vial).

2\. Thaw DOLLY12 fibroblasts into each of the conditions in the table below
and seed culture vessels (T175) at 7000 cells/cm2:

  
RPMIEMEM-alphaDifco Soytone (5g/L)Bacto Yeastolate (5g/L)  
Condition 1

✔

  

✔

  
  
Condition 2

✔

  
  

✔  
  
Condition 3

✔

  

✔

✔  
  
Condition 4  

✔

✔

  
  
Condition 5  

✔

  

✔  
  
Condition 6  

✔

✔

✔  
  
*The starting FBS concentration will be 10% for each of these conditions

**These six conditions will be complemented by a serum control condition,
which will just be the standard growth media DMEM/F12 + 10% + 1X P/S.

***Stock solution of each of the hydrolysate used will needed to be prepared
prior to adding them into the growth media. See guide below on how to prepare
them.

3\. Once the cells reach confluence after the thaw subculture the cells and
reseed them in the same media conditions as above however the FBS
concentration will now be 7% to induce serum starvation adaptation.

4\. Continue feeding and passaging each of the condition until a stable
doubling population time (PDT) is maintained over 3 passages.

*PDT is defined as the average time it takes a cell population to double in the log-phase/exponential phase i.e. during linear growth. 

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UOtrIhNxtwhSlIlQX6obuCw8KtwSE912x6yf-l7hUQI/edit#gid=103401670

5\. Repeat steps 3-4 gradually reducing the content of serum from 7% to 5% to
2.5% and finally to 1%.

Once the cells are stably growing in a 5% FBS serum concentration grow a flask
of these cells to scale to bank down as a F_WCB, to be used in the situation
that cells all die in the lower serum concentrations.  

Note: If the culture viability drops below 80% or if the generation time
increases markedly following a decrease in the serum concentration, increase
the serum level to the previous value and maintain the cells for two passage
cycles before lowering the level of serum again. It may be necessary to
institute a more gradual decline in serum concentration with these cells.

  

Prep of both hydrolysate stock solutions:

Before adding the hydrolysates into the media they will first have to be
prepared as a stock solution. To make it easier in determining how much of the
stock solution needs to added to the growth media its best to prepare a stock
solution of 10% (w/v) (i.e. 100g of hydrolysate in 1 L of Milli-Q water).
Fortunately, if 1 L of solution is not required the volume can be easily
adjusted.

1\. Retrieve hydrolysates from the cell expansion fridge - BBL Phytone Peptone
Stock #372 and Difco Select Phytone UF Stock #3489. 12:30

2\. Weigh out 10 g of each hydrolysate.

3\. Add the 10 g powder to 100 mL of Milli-Q water. According to this
technical sheet the hydrolysates should be soluble in purified water and the
solution should appear to be clear to slightly hazy.

4\. Sterile filtered the dissolved hydrolysate solution through a 0.22 um
filter unit in the MAIN LAB. This concentrate can then be used to add the
hydrolysates into the growth media.

5\. Store solution at 4'C for 2-4 weeks.  

Please make sure that whenever media containing hydrolysates is required, that
it is prepared on or as close to the day its required as possible. In order to
make media with hydrolysates at 5g/L just add 0.05 mL (50 uL) of the
hydrolysate concentrate to 3 mL of growth media.

  

  

[Day_ Adaption to suspension]

  




