Introduction:


Protein is an essential and attractive component of meat. In cultured meat
applications, mature muscle forms the building blocks for many potential
products being brought to market. Hence at Vow, one of our key areas of
research is increasing the capability of our myoblasts to differentiate and
mature into strong networks of mature muscle. In conjunction to specific
antibody-capture methods, the increase in protein from maturing our cells
could be an important metric - especially in the wider context of product.

The Bradford assay is a colourimetric protein assay that hinges of the colour
change of it's active reagent Coomassie Brilliant Blue. This dye binds to the
carboxyl and amino groups of a protein, thus causing the dye to shift from a
cationic state (brown/red) to an anionic state (blue). This colourimetric
change is observed at 595nm. The increase in absorbance at 595nm is
proportional to the concentration of protein content in the sample. In order
to extract the concentration of the sample of interest from the Abs values, a
standard curve must be constructed using known concentrations of a protein. A
standard curve is constructed using dilutions of a BSA standard (1 - 2000
ug/ml) and used to determine the concentration of the unknown. The Bradford
assay can only be used for this particular range and hence unknown samples
must be diluted till a concentration of protein in this range is achieved.

The assay can be conducted using a microplate format (e.g. 96 well plates) or
on a larger scale using cuvettes.

  
  
  
Image 1: The mechanism of the Bradford assay.


Advantages/Disadvantages:
  
  
Advantages:

  * Direct analysis, reagent is added and a change is observed.
  * Very little non specific absorbance if Bradford blank is used.
  * Reagent is cheap compared to other precise quantification kits.
  * Sensitive from 1 - 2000 ug/ml of protein.

Disadvantages:

  * Unable to be used with lysis buffers and detergents as CBB reacts with these.
  * Not precise for maturation markers such as MyoG and myosin heavy chain II.
  * Coomassie Brilliant Blue is only sensitive for proteins containing arginine, lysine and histadine [1] and hence proteins such as gelatin and collagen aren't sensitive to this assay.


Protocol:


Freeze-thaw lysis method:

  * Aspirate E6 from wells of interest and wash multiple times with PBS to remove serum proteins. Ensure the last wash contains a small amount of PBS to ensure a concentrated lysate.
  * Foil seal the outer edges of the plates twice.
  * Transfer the plate to a LN2 bath for 3 minutes.
  * Thaw in water bath for 3 minutes.
  * Repeat freeze/thaw cycle three more times.
  * Ensure cell lysis loading lysate under haemocytometer slide.

Bradford protocol:

  * Transfer lysate to microcentrifuge/falcon tubes and centrifuge at 650g for 5 mins.
  * Make up a 2000 mg/ml solution of BSA and perform dilutions of this standard in a non-treated 96 well plate. The dilutions are as follows: 2000, 1500, 1000, 750, 500, 250, 125, 25 ug/mL. Perform dilutions using water or PBS as the diluent.
  * Add 250uL bradford reagent to a new set of wells underneath the standard dilutions.
  * Add blanks and Bradford reagent to seperate wells (to normalise signal against).
  * Add 5uL of the sample to each of the corresponding wells containing Bradford reagent.
  * Mix well with P200 pipette and spin plate down for 5 mins to remove bubbles (5 min incubation time).
  * Read at 595nm using plate reader.
  * Aspirate 100uL of supernatant from the cell lysate solution and transfer seperate wells on the 96 well plate. Keep cold by placing on ice.
  * Perform dilutions of the unknown (1:2, 1:10, 1:50, 1:100) 
  * Add 250 uL of Bradford the a new set of wells in triplicate - then add 5uL of dilution to each of these.
  * Read at 595nm using plate reader.


  
Image 2: A typical microplate format for the Bradford Assay. Note the
colourimetric change observed from the binding of CBB  
  
  


Analysis:


Data analysis:

A CSV file will be generated from the plate reader containing:

  * The absorbances of the standard BSA dilutions including the Bradford blank (0 - 2000 ug/ml) (averaged)
  * The absorbances of the PBS/water blanks (averaged)
  * The absorbances of the unknowns and it's corresponding dilutions (averaged)

Using these absorbances,

  1. Construct a standard curve from 0 - 2000 ug/mL with Abs on the y-axis and concentrations on the x - axis
  2. Construct a trendline for the linear trend and record the equation and R squared of linear regression.
  3. Using the equation, substitute the Abs value for the unknown dilution of interest to obtain the protein concentration for that particular dilution.
  4. Back calculate to find the concentration of the cell lysate
  5. Use the volume of cell lysate to obtain the ug of protein in the cell lysate.

  

This has been automated in the form of a Python script - contact Shaleen
regarding it's use.


  
  
Image 3: A standard curve and linear regression trendline generated for the
Bradford assay.


References:
  
  
[1]: Bradford, M. M. (1976). A rapid and sensitive method for the quantitation
of microgram quantities of protein utilizing the principle of protein-dye
binding. Analytical biochemistry, 72(1-2), 248-254.


