

12:15: Began comparing analysis methods between nuclei ejection, DAPI counting
cells on carriers and Hoechst staining cells on carriers. This should allow us
to see how precise each method is at estimating cell number in the culture for
a given volume of media in that suspension culture.




Ran the images captured of the Hoechst stained microcarriers with cells
attached (5x replicates) (Images found here with locational data attached as
D-H https://mia-capture.vow.tools/#/session/recGP0WfFPYqMDHtF/images) These
images were processed through the 'uCarrier cell count' tool.




MIA output files are added to the following folder:
https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1VVq4aulyQPlS4iPdXCi-D4O4TnwSS6Bn.
The MIA output file for images captured of stained microcarriers from culture
6338 on Day 1 after seeding was also included here.




12:52: Began processing each of images captured from the ejected nuclei
samples using FIJI.

Had to generate a macro for FIJI that would process the images. (concluded at
1:22). Macro 1.

run("16-bit");

run("Subtract Background...", "rolling=100");

//run("Threshold...");

setAutoThreshold("Moments dark");

setOption("BlackBackground", true);

run("Convert to Mask");

run("Remove Outliers...", "radius=5 threshold=50 which=Bright");

run("Analyze Particles...", "size=60-Infinity circularity=0.10-1.00
show=Outlines summarize add");

Used this macro to batch process all images captured at 10x objective using
the Axio microcscope, DAPI channel, maked with the notes 'Nuclei ejection'

Raw FIJI results were placed here:  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rZSVFBr6GCFsMlPvja7F6--
EHFCVeeHDvttKKx6XGUw/edit#gid=588598620

  

  




Investigated the output images files resulting from the first macro, they
appeared to not segment a majority of the bright spots in a lot of images.

Began updating the script to get it to pick up more bright spots in each
image.  
Began processing the nuclei ejected images captured at 10x magnification once
more using an updated script: Macro 2.  
  

run("16-bit");

run("Subtract Background...", "rolling=100");

//run("Threshold...");

setAutoThreshold("Moments dark");

setOption("BlackBackground", true);

run("Convert to Mask");

run("Remove Outliers...", "radius=4 threshold=50 which=Bright");

run("Analyze Particles...", "size=20-Infinity circularity=0.02-1.00
show=Outlines summarize add");

  

Raw FIJI results were placed here once again:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rZSVFBr6GCFsMlPvja7F6--
EHFCVeeHDvttKKx6XGUw/edit#gid=588598620




[2:10-2:18] Entered the lab to capture an image of the hemocytometer under the
10x and 5x objective on the axio microscope. This was done to ensure that the
imaging ROI can be calculated accurately so the ejected nuclei counts could be
back calculated to the the original culture vessel.

Hemocytometer images were included in the experiment drive folder here:
https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1VVq4aulyQPlS4iPdXCi-D4O4TnwSS6Bn

The 10x image of the hemocytometer was used to set the scale in FIJI for the
imaging ROI. One square on hemocytometer grid was measured the pixel length
was set to scale.

Each image captured at 10x objective currently is 1.1926mm^2

This make the volume of the ROI 1.1926mm^2 x 0.1mm = 0.11926mm^3

This is equal to 0.00011926mL

The 5x image of the hemocytometer was used to set the scale in FIJI for the
imaging ROI. One square on hemocytometer grid was measured the pixel length
was set to scale.

Each image captured at 5x objective currently is 4.6464mm^2

This make the volume of the ROI 1.1926mm^2 x 0.1mm = 0.46464mm^3

This is equal to 0.00046464mL

  

These values can be used to calculate the total number of cells/mL for each
volume of nuclei ejected sample (V nuclei).

Vnuclei Cells/mL = Ejected nuclei / volume of ROI:

Since each sample was processed from 900uL of original sample culture the
Total cell number per Vnuclei volume is also equal to the total cell number
for 900uL of original culture sample.

  

  




For images captured of Fixed and DAPI stained microcarriers, one image set for
each biological replicate was used to generate cell counts per microcarrier.
Counts of cells on microcarriers were captured by hand as the MIA tool
'uCarrier cell count plastic' did not process the microcarrier images
correctly. I believe the high background fluoursence of the microcarrier
interferes with the thresholding step in the tool used to pick up the brightly
stained nuclei.




Counts for each microcarrier were captured in the same spreadsheet here:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rZSVFBr6GCFsMlPvja7F6--
EHFCVeeHDvttKKx6XGUw/edit#gid=1445862989




Went through processing the results in the prism file below with Tom.




  

Figure 1: Summary data for each of the different counting methods.

There were significant differences in the accuracy of culture cell density
estimates between each method. The coefficients of variance in estimates from
the MIA processed images and hand counted fixed and DAPI images were similar.
This suggests both methods are equally precise despite their differences in
accuracy.  

  


