

LINK TO CLUBHOUSE EPIC PAGE:
https://app.shortcut.com/vowfood/epic/22115?cf_workflow=500000005&ct_workflow=all&project_ids=16477&group_ids=5f43336f-60bb-4b55-8ad3-7a38f5c2ae7b&vc_group_by=day

LINK TO AIRTABLE ENTRY PAGE:  n/a

RELATED TO MILESTONE:  KR2 = increase myoG expression to 60%

AIM/PURPOSE: To implement and automate ELISA for adherent cell cultures and on
scaffolds

HYPOTHESIS: The ELISA workflow steps perform at least equally well in terms of
background reduction and overall absorbance results when compared to manual
execution

TECHNICAL GAP: Automated liquid handling, while presenting benefits on the
side of reproducibility and operator time-savings, also has associated
drawbacks that may influence the outcome of this effort. These are mainly
related to less versatile pipetting (humans can pipette easily at an angle to
the well and follow the liquid level during pipetting)and other behaviors (no
tapping or blotting possible in automation) as well as lack of in-line QC (the
Opentrons does not check how well liquid was removed/added/mixed to the well,
whereas a human operator can look at the wells and repeat operations on
demand).

RESULTS SUMMARY:

Figure: Replicate variability for MyoG (Column 2-5) and MF20 (columns 7-10)
staining at constant cell density. Columns 6 and 11 are control conditions

CONCLUSIONS: While the developed automation protocols were executed reliably,
we found significant variability between replicate conditions for all cell
densities and antibodies (and Ab dilutions) tested (see figure above). A high
level of TMB absorbance was observed for control conditions, possibly due to
insufficient washing or non-specific adsorption of IgG to cells or cell
culture surfaces.

NEXT STEPS: Further manual workflow optimization is needed to reduce
background adsorption of IgG (secondary antibody) and improve the signal to
noise ratio. A better washing protocol needs to be developed and secondary
antibody dilution to be optimized to guarantee low background absorbance
readings from control wells. Reproducibility between replicates must be
established (e.g. by normalizing cell seeding density).


