

22/04/21 Automation for scaffolds and microcarriers meeting

Meeting agenda:  
1) To assign automation priorities for microcarrier work - what are the major
rate limiting steps of this pipeline  
2) To have a clear vision of what will be worked on this quarter to overcome
the main rate limiting steps for this pipeline  
3) To assign who will be working on what problems with some rough target
deadlines

Meeting attendees:

Ella, Tom, Stanley, Derek, Chris, Avani, Nathan

Summary:

It was identified that for work with microcarriers that there are two main
pain points/rate limiting steps in the current process these include:

  
1) Downstream handling of microcarriers for processes including
trypsinisation, harvest and fix and DAPI  

2) Cell counting on microcarriers

An additional step which could be considered rate limiting is sampling/mixing,
however after some discussion around the previous work employed with the
opentrons to overcome mixing issues, and the limitations of the axio
(including stand space) it was considered that the effort/equipment/time
required to set up an appropriate sampling protocol using the opentrons would
unlikely save a significant time when compared to manual sampling and this
energy could be better focused elesewhere in the pipeline i.e. downstream
handling

  

Actions:

1) Test that Zaber-MIA integration works well for microcarrier images
(integration due to be set up within 1 week) (TT, NH,  TIME ESTIMATE: 2 weeks)

2) Continue optimisation experiments on the Opentrons using a multi-channel
p300, and compare this to manual handling with a p1000. This will allow us to
see whether we can perform these steps with a p300 multi-channel on the OT2 to
improve throughput rather than using the p1000 single channel pipette. (NH,
AB, Derek, TIME ESTIMATE: 2 weeks)

3) Validate trypan blue for cell count analysis using the Zaber (NH, TIME
ESTIMATE: ?)

4) 3D print a 96-well plate sized insert for the zaber, which will hold
multiple haemocytometer slides (test this, if successful print more, or
outsource and have 3D printed using metal, if not successful order an insert
from Zaber ~300AUD per insert) (CO, TT, NH,  TIME ESTIMATE: 3h)

5) Test cell counting of cells on microcarriers using the insert set up on the
zaber using already established region method of imaging (how repeatable is
this process? how comparable is it to manual cell counts? how much time is
saved?) (TT, NH, TIME ESTIMATE: 1 month)  
  


