

## Completed by: AK




A major focus in achieving viable suspension cultures has been the process of
developing a high-throughput platform to analyse large numbers of suspension
cultures (>50) simultaneously. As a result it has become crucial to optimise
separate processes' that enable the pool party team to obtain useful metrics
such as cell numbers, to quantify performance of certain culture conditions.
In the past this has predominantly been fluorescence based such that each
individual culture condition are stained with both a live and dead cell
tracker. These stains generally bind to nuclei acid material present in the
nucleus or converted into a membrane impermeable molecule in the cytoplasm or
organelle capable of florescence. All stained cultures are then imaged under
the respective florescent channels, according to which stain was administered,
using the automated fluorescence microscope system known as Zaber. To obtain
cell counts on the live and dead stained images an image processing tool
called FIJI is utilised to automatically analyse the images to identify
"cells" according to their fluorescence, size and morphology. Despite this
process being semi-automated with minimal human input there have been several
shortcomings during it's development, namely the difficulties in obtaining
consistent live/dead staining, and weak fluorescence observed from live cell
stains. Consequently this has made it difficult in obtaining accurate cell
counts using current macro codes. In addition it is unclear if the results
obtained from current FIJI analyses are representative of actual cell numbers.
Therefore in response to this we aim to screen multiple live/dead stains to
identify a combination that produces the most consistent results across
several factors. Furthermore it is also necessary to screen which live/dead
stains can adequately fluorescence such that they can observed on the Zaber
and detected using our current suspension macros.


