

## Completed by: Bec Screnci  




In order to accurately select the top-performing clones from single cell
cloning attempts, we need systems that allow for success. We have been
successful in generating a ML model which can identify (at a very low
confluence) the presence of cells within zaber images of multi-well plate
wells. However, since switching from MuSCs (muscle stem cells) to fibroblast
cells which grow to a higher confluence and have slightly different
morphology, we have noticed inaccuracies in the ML model's cell counts.

In order to improve the existing model, we aim to generate thousands of images
of wells, with corresponding Hoechst (nuclear stain) images which can point to
the nucleus of the cells. The aim of generating these images is to then use
them to train the model further to be more accurate. This may, however, reach
a limit of confluence where we cannot obtain accurate-enough counts due to
very little definition between cells when they grow confluent and form larger
colonies of cells.

One alternative strategy is to develop a new ML model to allow for an output
reading of total confluence.

Confluence = surface area covered by cells / total surface area of well * 100
(as a percentage).

The way we aim to achieve this metric is to seed multiple multi-well plates
with cells and various concentrations, allow them to grow for 1-2 days. Once
cells are adhered, staining with CMFDA (a cytoplasmic stain, seen on AF488
channel), washing the wells and imaging AF488/Phase. The cells can then be
kept for up to 3 days and imaged daily, as CMFDA is known to remain in cells
for up to 72 hours). In this attempt, we can use the fluorescence from the
AF488 channel to show exactly where the cell cytoplasm is, and from that
calculate the confluence of the wells and train a new ML model on this data so
that it can predict a well's confluence based on a Phase image in the future.




Stockyard Experiment

Shortcut EPIC


