

## Completed by: Chris




The background for this continuing project has been described in previous
quarters Q2 and Q3 and is applicable for this quarter as well. We are also
revisiting the suitability of Alginate as a gel matrix this quarter, following
some guidance that we may have previously worked at insufficient cell seeding
densities to achieve differentiation of myoblasts in this matrix. Additional
backgound on alginate see below.

 Q4 efforts will focus on:

  1. Improving and scaling the design of the m-stim inserts (e.g. anchor point inserts scale to a pin array?)
  2. Improving the analysis of mature muscle harvested from the inserts by using Bradford or new methodologies
  3. using a scalable m-stim system such as compressible hydrogels to actively exercise muscle




## Additional background on Alginate hydrogels

Alginate for cell encapsulation and muscle tissue engineering

The naturally occurring polysaccharide alginate has been widely used in
biomedical applications because of its non-antigenicity, good
biocompatibility, and reasonable biodegradability. An additional attribute of
alginate, is that in the presence of divalent cations (Ca2+), it can be
ionically crosslinked in an manner which is mild, cell compatible, easy to
apply and cost-effect. As a result alginate has been popularly employed as a
drug-delivery system, a cell carrier, and a cell-laden bioink in a 3D
bioprinting (Ahn, Lee, Bonassar, & Kim, 2012).

Furthermore, owing to the processability of alginate, alginate scaffolds can
be readily processed into various morphologies including microspheres, 3D
sponges, nanofibers, and microscale cell-laden struts. Consequently, alginate-
based materials have already been applied in numerous tissue-engineering
applications e.g., skin, cartilage, and bone (Kim, Ahn, Kim, Cho, & Chun,
2011; Markstedt et al., 2015; Wang, Xia et al., 2015).

An additional benefit of alginate, for the purposes of clean meat engineering,
is the biocompatibility and edibility of this material type. Wherein, sodium
alginate derived from brown algae or seaweed such as kelp is already an
accepted food product, present as an emulsifier in products such as ice cream,
salad dressing, fruit juice, and yoghurt. In addition, the commonly employed
alginate cross-linker 'calcium chloride' is used as an additive in the food
industry; as a way of enhancing the salty taste of food products such as
pickles without increasing their sodium content.

Thus, due to it's known biocompatibility and processability alginate hydrogels
represent a promising material candidate for investigation for cellular
agriculture using MuSCs. Despite this, limited literature can be found on
alginate for the application of tissue engineering for clean meat production
(an occurrence which is likely due to both the novelty and the industrial
nature of this research area). Consequently, relevant information on alginate
in combination with muscle cells should be sourced from biomedical research,
including the following literature:

Muscle tissue engineering using gingival mesenchymal stem cells encapsulated
in alginate hydrogels containing multiple growth factors, Ansari et al., 2017
(DOI: 10.1007/s10439-016-1594-6)

In brief, Ansari et al., demonstrated that an RGD coupled alginate hydrogel
encapsulation system supported the viability of gingival mesenchymal stem
cells (GMSCs) and their myogenic differentiation capacity. In terms of
differentiation, it was found that alginate hydrogels with an elasticity
between 10 and 16 kPa, in comparison to softer (<5kPa) or stiffer (>20kPa)
hydrogels, demonstrated the highest capacity for myogenic differentiation as
evidenced by an upregulation of myogenic genes, including myogenin, MyoD, and
Myf5 GMSCs. With a higher expression than that of encapsulated human bone
marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hBMMSCs), which were stated as the gold
standard of MSC therapy.

Thus, the elasticity of the alginate hydrogel in the experiments by Ansari et
al., was shown to control the myogenic fate of the encapsulated cells.
Subsequently, when we test alginate with our MuSCs at Vow, we should consider
a range of alginate moduli, by adjusting factors such as cross-linker
concentration, crosslinking time and/or polymer concentration, as this will
likely influence the behavior of our cells, as well as their capability for
myogenesis.

Moreover, Ansari et al., showed that their alginate hydrogels possess a porous
microstructure 16 , which is an attribute that enables the diffusion of
oxygen, nutrients and growth factors to the encapsulated cells. Thus, it was
stated that alginate with an optimised matrix elasticity of 10-16 kPa presents
a highly suitable scaffold biomaterial for muscle tissue engineering.

Hydrogels for Skeletal Muscle Regeneration (DOI: 10.1007/s40883-019-00146-x)

Nano/microscale topographically designed alginate/PCL scaffolds for inducing
myoblast alignment and myogenic differentiation (DOI:
10.1016/j.carbpol.2019.115041)

Synthesis of Injectable Alginate Hydrogels with Muscle-Derived Stem Cells for
Potential Myocardial Infarction Repair (https://doi.org/10.3390/app7030252)

Functional 3D Tissue Engineering Scaffolds: Materials (books.google.com.au)
Ying Deng, Jordan Kuiper * 2017


