

## Completed by: AK


Aim/Purpose


Generate an MCB of FreeStyle CHO-S suspension adapted cell line.


Hypothesis


N/A. This experiment is a process and thus does not have a hypothesis.


Technical Gap


All suspension experiments conducted thus far have not included a suspension
adapted cell line to serve as a control. Before FreeStyle CHO-S can be
incorporated in future experiments it is first necessary to generate an MCB to
provide a supply of cells for R&D purposes.


Method/Procedure


Method adapted from the guides provided by Thermo Fisher Scientific. See
guides below.

The FreeStyle CHO-S cell line is supplied in a vial containing 1 mL of cells
at 1 × 10^7 viable cells/mL in 90% FreeStyle CHO Expression Medium and 10%
DMSO. Thaw FreeStyle CHO-S cells directly into the FreeStyle CHO Expression
Medium.

  

Materials/reagents required:

 • FreeStyle CHO-S cells (supplied; store frozen cells in liquid nitrogen
until ready to use)

• FreeStyle CHO Expression Medium (pre-warm at 37℃ before use). Make sure that
8 mM L-Glutamine has been added. Note: Do not add antibiotics to media at this
point as this may impact cell growth.

• 125‑mL polycarbonate, disposable, sterile Erlenmeyer flask with vented cap

• Orbital shaker in 37℃ incubator with a humidified atmosphere of 8% CO2

• Reagents to determine viable and total cell counts

  

Thaw procedure:  

Store frozen cells in liquid nitrogen until ready to use. To thaw and
establish cells:

1\. Remove the cryovial of cells from the liquid nitrogen and thaw quickly in
a 37℃ water bath.

2\. Just before the cells are completely thawed, decontaminate the outside of
the vial with 70% ethanol. Gently break up clumps and cell pellet if present
and transfer the entire contents of the cryovial into a 125‑mL polycarbonate,
disposable, sterile Erlenmeyer shaker flask containing 30 mL of pre-warmed
FreeStyle CHO Expression Medium supplemented with 8 mM L-Glutamine.

3\. Incubate cells in a 37℃ incubator containing a humidified atmosphere of 8%
CO2 in air on an orbital shaker platform rotating at 125 rpm.

4\. The next day, determine viable and total cell counts. Generally, viability
is >70%; a bit lower is no reason for concern, but if viability is less than
60% thaw a new batch of cells.

5\. Subculture the FreeStyle CHO-S cells 24-48 hours after thawing by seeding
cells at 0.3 × 106 viable cells/mL in pre-warmed FreeStyle CHO Expression
Medium supplemented with 8 mM L-Glutamine. We generally use 125- or 250‑mL
polycarbonate, disposable, sterile, Erlenmeyer flasks containing 40 mL or 80
mL total working volume of cell suspension, respectively.

  

Subculture cells procedure:

Subculture cells when the density is approximately 1 × 10^6-1.5 × 10^6 viable
cells/mL, typically every 48-72 hours. When maintaining FreeStyle CHO-S cells,
we generally use a 125- or 250‑mL polycarbonate, disposable, sterile
Erlenmeyer flask with vented cap containing 40 mL or 80 mL total working
volume of cell suspension, respectively.

1\. Determine viable and total cell counts.

2\. Using the cell density determined in Step 1 on page 11, calculate the
split ratio needed to seed the new shaker flask at

3\. 0.5 × 10^5-2 × 10^5 viable cells/mL.

4\. Dilute the cells in fresh, pre-warmed FreeStyle CHO Expression Medium
supplemented with 8 mM L-Glutamine to give a final cell density of 0.5 ×
10^5-2 × 10^5 viable cells/mL in the desired final volume.

5\. Incubate flasks in a 37℃ incubator containing a humidified atmosphere of
8% CO2 in air on an orbital shaker platform rotating at 120-135 rpm.


