

Completed by: AK




Rationale: Preliminary results indicate that CHOMP fibroblast cells can be
suspended in growth medium supplemented with methylcellulose (MC). MC is an
organic polymer used to as a thickening agent to generate a semi-solid medium
to support cell growth in suspension-like conditions. We have found that
concentrations of MC between 0.3-1% are able to prevent the adhesion of
fibroblast cells onto the base of 96-well plates. However concentrations
between 0.6-1% are extremely viscous and result in free floating particles of
MC that are not adequately dissolved in the media. Therefore this experiment
will investigate MC concentrations between 0.3-0.45% given they offered the
best compromise between preventing cellular adhesion as well as being less
viscous to work with.  


Method/Procedure


D0: Seed DOLLY12 fibroblasts in T175 flask at ~7000 cell/cm2 for scale up

If feasible obtain cells from an already existing culture of DOLLY12
fibroblasts and seed at 7000 cells/cm2 in a T175 flask. If not possible, thaw
a vial of 1M DOLLY_12 fibroblast and seed a single T175 flask.

D5: Harvest DOLLY_12 fibroblasts and seed in 96-well plates

Harvest T175 flask that was previously seeded on day 0 and seed out the
required number of 96-well plates (at 100 cells per well) according to how
many conditions are seeded. The following conditions will be seeded:

1\. Control: DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS + 1X P/S + ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

2\. RPMI 1640 \+ 10% FBS + 1X P/S \+ ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

3\. CD CHO \+ 10% FBS + 1X P/S \+ ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

4\. CDM4 CHO \+ 10% FBS + 1X P/S \+ ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

5\. Hycell CHO \+ 10% FBS + 1X P/S \+ ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

6\.  EMEMα \+ 10% FBS + 1X P/S \+ ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

  

7\. Control: DMEM/F12 + 20% KSR + 1X P/S + ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

8\. RPMI 1640 \+ 20% KSR + 1X P/S + ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

9\. CD CHO \+ 20% KSR + 1X P/S + ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

10\. CDM4 CHO \+ 20% KSR + 1X P/S + ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

11\. Hycell CHO \+ 20% KSR + 1X P/S + ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

12\.  EMEMα \+ 20% KSR + 1X P/S + ACA (1:100) + 0.1% pluronic

  

Note: Each media condition will be combined with MC the stock solution will
have to be made up to a concentration such that when they are diluted they
will be the concentrations as listed above. For example for conditions 1-12 in
the 0.45% MC will need to be made at 2x the concentration as they will be
diluted will a 1% MC stock solution, i.e., 20% FBS, 2X P/S etc. See table
below.

  

Condition (0.45% MC)Basal MediaFBS (10%)KSR (20%)P/S (1x)ACA (1:100)0.1%
pluronic  
1400 uL80 uLN/A8 uL8 uL  
8 uL  
2400 uL  
80 uL  
N/A  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
3400 uL  
80 uL  
N/A  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
4400 uL  
80 uL  
N/A  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
5400 uL  
80 uL  
N/A  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
6400 uL  
80 uL  
N/A  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
7400 uL  
N/A  
160 uL8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
8400 uL  
N/A  
160 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
9400 uL  
N/A  
160 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
10400 uL  
N/A  
160 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
11400 uL  
N/A  
160 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
12400 uL  
N/A  
160 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
8 uL  
  
Total volume required = 800 uL  
  
  

Seed out conditions according to this plate map:

Each of the columns numbers align with the numbers of each of the conditions
(i.e., column 1 will be the D/F12 + 10% FBS + 1X P/S etc).

  

  


