

## Report by: LL




Key takeaways

  1. Adherent crocodile fibroblasts (F_CHOMP09) are able to survive the FACS process and proliferate for up to 15 days after sorting
  2. Hoechst 33342 is toxic to cells at 25 ug/mL and causes mass cell death within 24 hours of application. It may also impact viability and proliferation and cause mutations at lower concentrations e.g. 5 ug/mL according to literature.
  3. Initial results suggest that a number of clones did have shorter doubling times than our current heterogeneous population of F_CHOMP09 cells (e.g. ~1.5 days compared with ~2.1 days)
  4. A lab book template for staining live cells in 384-well plates with Hoechst 33342 was created to prevent future errors from occurring. See here for template: https://au-mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Templates/NzU2LjZ8MTE3MTM1LzU4Mi9UcmVlTm9kZS8zMjAzNjY1NjQxfDE5MjAuNg==




Discussion

Generating a clonal population of crocodile fibroblasts is key to Vow's
mission to produce sufficient cells to feed billions of people. Up to this
point, crocodile fibroblasts had not been put through the established single-
cell cloning pipeline. It was therefore unclear if they would survive the FACS
sorting process and subsequent days of proliferation in very low-density
populations (lots of stress on cells). In this experiment, we aimed firstly to
determine whether F_CHOMP09 fibroblasts would survive the cell sorting
procedure, and secondly whether we could obtain a fast-growing clonal
population from this process.

Two and a half (2.5) million F_CHOMP09 fibroblasts were harvested at Vow, and
1520 cells were sorted (FACS) into individual wells of 4 x 384-well plates at
the Garvan Institute. The plates were imaged using the Zaber microscope on
days 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10 and 13. On day 15, the cells were stained with Hoechst
33342 for macro analysis in order to generate a clone pick-list.
Unfortunately, there was a misunderstanding of what the final concentration of
Hoechst should be in the growth medium. As a result, 25 ug/mL was used, rather
than 5 ug/mL. Despite the medium being changed within 2 hours of initial
Hoechst exposure, the high concentration created a large amount of debris
(Figure 1), resulting in inaccuracies in the data generated by the FIJI macro.
From the obtained images, it was clear that the F_CHOMP09 fibroblasts had
proliferated notably since being sorted (Figures 2a - 2b). A pick-list for
each plate was generate using binary code to indicate which wells were being
selected (see "Results and Data Analysis" entry for pick-list spreadsheets),
which was used to create an Opentron protocol to passage the clonal
populations into 96-well plates. 24 hours after passaging, the seeded 4 x 96
well plates were imaged using the Zaber microscope. It appeared that the
majority of the cells had died since being passaged (Figure 3). The plates
were checked again on day 21, and when no live cells were observed, the
cultures were discarded.

We hypothesise that the cell death was a result of the exposure to a high
concentration of Hoechst for 2 hours. Schendzielorz et al (2016) found that
even 5 ug/mL of Hoechst impaired proliferation and viability of adipose-
derived stem cells, and significantly damaged cell DNA [1]. They determined
that 0.5 ug/mL Hoechst was low enough to not significantly impact these tested
cell properties [1]. This finding suggests that the intended concentration of
Hoechst in this experiment (5 ug/mL) may have still resulted in cell death.
Furthermore, Durand & Olive (1981) found that Hoechst produced mutations and
definite inhibitory effects on the DNA synthesis rate of CHO cells, even at
concentrations that were only mildly cytotoxic [2]. Given that we intend to
use our clonal populations in end-products at Vow, we should be cautious using
reagents that increase the rate of random and unintended mutations. Fried
(1982) tested the cytotoxicity of Hoechst on three different cell types: HeLa
S-3, SK-DHL2 (a human lymphoma cell line) and hematopoietically normal human
bone marrow cells. They found Hoechst had considerably different cytotoxicity
and kinetic effects on each cell type [3]. The growth rate and viability of
HeLa cells was almost entirely unaffected, even at the highest tested
concentration of Hoechst (10 uM) [3]. On the contrary, SK-DHL2 cells were
extremely sensitive to Hoechst; at 4 uM Hoechst the cells did not proliferate
within a 6 day period [3]. At Vow we are constantly working with different
cell types (e.g. MuSCs and fibroblasts) and different species (e.g. crocodile,
sheep, water buffalo), and we do not know how varied the reaction of each of
these cells is to Hoechst. Going forward, we should be very cautious about
using Hoechst to stain live cells in culture.




Limitations

Due to the death of cells by Hoechst cytotoxicity, we are unable to conclude
whether any of the clones isolated had shorter doubling times or were able to
undergo more total doublings than our current heterogeneous F_CHOMP09
population. Our initial results indicate that a number of the clones did have
a superior growth rate; for example, well E18 (Figures 2a-2b) contained 688
cells on day 15 according to the cell count macro, meaning that this clone
population doubled every 1.5 days. In contrast, our current F_CHOMP09 cell
line doubles once every ~2.1 days. However, without more data to verify these
results and with no chance to continue culturing the cells, we cannot draw
definitive conclusions.




Conclusion

Our hypothesis was partially supported. Crocodile fibroblasts (F_CHOMP09) are
able to survive the FACS process and continue proliferating for â‰¥15 days after
sorting. While early results suggest that some clonal populations had faster
doubling times than our current heterogeneous population, the high
concentration of Hoechst 33342 used to stain the cells proved to be toxic, and
therefore no clonal fibroblast populations were generated from this
experiment.




Future directions

We are currently de-prioritising adherent cell cloning in favour of suspension
cell cloning. However, given the promising results seen with improved doubling
times, it may be worthwhile repeating this clone run to generate a fast
growing crocodile fibroblast for production until we manage to adapt cells to
suspension culture.

In the meantime, Lily will discuss with engineering the potential for
developing a cell counting macro with a cytoplasmic stain e.g. CMFDA rather
than Hoechst. Cytoplasmic stains are safer to use for live cells as they do
not enter the nucleus and therefore do not interfere with DNA synthesis and
replication.

If it is possible to develop a cell count macro using a cytoplasmic stain,
Lily will plan an experiment comparing the impact of Hoechst vs CMFDA on cell
proliferation rate and viability over time.




References

[1] Schendzielorz, P., Froelich, K., Rak, K., Gehrke, T., Scherzad, A., Hagen,
R., Radeloff, A. 2016. Labeling Adipose-Derived Stem Cells with Hoechst 33342:
Usability and Effects on Differentiation Potential and DNA Damage. Stem Cells
International, vol. 2016, Article ID 6549347.
https://doi.org/10.1155/2016/6549347

[2] Durand, R., Olive, P. 1982. Cytotoxicity, Mutagenicity and DNA Damage by
Hoechst 33342. The Journal of Histochemistry and Cytochemistry. Vol. 30, No.
2, pp. 111-116. https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/30.2.7061816

[3] Fried, J., Doblin, J., Takamoto, S., Perez, A., Hansen, H., Clarkson, B.,
1982. Effects of hoechst 33342 on survival and growth of two tumor cell lines
and on hematopoietically normal bone marrow cells, 3(1), 42-47\.
doi:10.1002/cyto.990030110


