

## Completed by: Shaleen Sharma  


Aim/Purpose


To screen factors in our existing E6 media to identify the combination of
factors responsible for driving the differentiation process in BUFFY6
myoblasts and determine which additional media ingredients further this
process.  


Hypothesis


Analysis based on MyoG and/or MF20 expression will shed light on which
combination of factors in our E6 media are responsible for differentiation.
Moreover, it is hypothesised that 2 factors/media formulations in addition to
E6 factors will be identified that significantly enhance differentiation
relative to E6 alone. Thus a first step towards an optimised differentiation
media can be taken.


Technical Gap


The recipe for our current differentiation media (Essential 6 medium) was
identified in the early stages of the Vow science team. The key ingredients
responsible for driving differentiation were are not immediately clear,
however the combination of these ingredients have shown to enable the
differentation of DOLLY12 myoblasts - time and time again. Moreover, a
differentiation media that enables long term survival and maturity has not
been achieved yet. It is anticipated this experiment will address these
research gaps and take a first step towards an optimised differentiation media
for our primary cells.


Method/Procedure


Link to GSheet. Use this spreadsheet for information regarding:

  

  * Factors
  * Factor concentrations
  * Media mixing volumes on the OT2
  * Experimental plate map




Experiment timeline and summary:

Day

Task  
  
\- 4

Seed 2x 96wp @ 7000 cells/well (BUFFY6)  
  
\- 2

100% growth media feed  
  
0

Switch to DSD conditions (E6 differentiation media)  
  
1-9

100% feed DSD conditions on the OT2  
  
10

Fix, pAb, sAb and DAPI stain on the OT2  
  
  

Summary:

  1. Order required factors (Rate-determining step)
  2. Make up relevant stocks (reconstitute factors) of media components
  3. Obtain sufficient cells for the experiment from cell expansion or thaw and expand BUFFY6 cells.
  4. Seed cells onto 2 x 96wp in growth medium, proliferate for 2 days.
  5. Reconstitute factors into concentrated stocks, then make working stocks in DMEM/F12.
  6. Run DSD mixing protocol on OT2, create conditions then run plate randomisation protocol on OT2
  7. Differentiate cells for 10 days in DSD conditions.
  8. Create conditions again from sterile working stocks on Day 5.
  9. Fix, immunostain then analyse results.




Lab days (in person at Vow)

The table below outlines the days in which a OT2 trained primary or secondary
member must go into the lab to complete a task. This allows the in person days
for a given member to be mapped out appropriately.

  

Date

Day of Experiment

Tasks  
  
24-Nov

< Day [-2]

  * Check stock of re-constitution buffers, factors and bring in any necessary reagents/consumables for the duration of the DSD

  
  
26-Nov

Day [-2]

  * Seeding of 2 x 96 well plates in Growth Media (can also be done by a non-specialised member)

  
  
29-Nov

Day [0]

  * Making E6 bullet (bulk)
  * Reconstituting factors (bulk) and making sterile working stocks (bulk).
  * Running DSD media mixing protocol on OT2
  * Making controls (sterile and bulk).
  * Running plate randomisation protocol on OT2
  * Switch culture media to DSD conditions

  
  
3-Dec

Day [4]

  * Running DSD media mixing protocol on OT2
  * Running plate randomisation protocol on OT2

  
  
9-Dec

Day [10]

  * Fix plates on the OT2
  * Immunostain on the OT2


  
  
## Day [-2 to 0]: Seeding and proliferation

Gelatin coating:

  1. Transfer 50 uL of gelatin to each well of two 96-well plates
  2. Incubate plates for at least 1 hr (37ºC, 5% CO2). 

Passage and seed cells:

  1.  Passage cells from cell expansion and obtain cells in suspension.
  2.  Calculate amount of suspension required to obtain 600,000 cells in suspension using "Seed Calculator" widget.
  3.  Obtain 600,000 cells in 17mL of suspension by dilution with growth media.
  4.  Remove 50uL of gelatin from each well.
  5.  Seed each well (highlighted in yellow as per Figure 1 below) with 140uL of cell suspension at a density of 5000 cells/well.
  6.  Leave plate to settle in BSC for 30 mins at RT, before transferring to incubator (37 degrees, 5% CO2).

Proliferation in growth media:

  1.  Day 2: 100% feed with growth media.  
  
  
  
Figure 1: Plate map showing highlighted cells to be seeded at 5000 cells/well
(140 uL of cell suspension)  
  

  




Day [0]: Prepare mL 30x E6 bullet

  * Combine the following ingredients in a 20mL syringe with 0.22uM syringe filter to make mL of 30X E6 bullet:

  

Ingredient

Amount (uL/mL/mg)  
  
DMEM

 mL  
  
F12

 mL  
  
LAA2P

 uL  
  
Sodium Selenium

 uL  
  
Insulin

 uL  
  
Sodium bi-carbonate (powder)

 mg  
  
Transferrin

 uL  
  
Pen/Strep

 mL  
  
  

  * Use 6mL of 30X E6 bullet on Day 0 and Day 7 and freeze bullet in-between uses.

  




Day [0]/Day [7]: Creating conditions on OT2

Reconstituting factors (Day 0 only):

  1. Reconstitute factors to make bulk concentrated stocks (<10mL) at the appropriate concentration in 15mL falcon tubes.  See spec sheet for reconstitution instructions for each factor, as reconstitution protocols, reconstitution buffer and storage conditions may differ.
  2. Prepare sterile reconstitution buffers in bulk (<20mL)

Preparing working stocks (Day 0 only):

  1. Open to the "Factor Calcs" tab of spreadsheet to find uL amounts of DMEM/F12 and concentrated stock needed to create a working stock for each factor.
  2. Label 12 sterile 50 mL falcon tubes as follows: "[Factor name] - working stock". 
  3. Add the appropriate amounts of DMEM/F12 and concentrated stock as per spreadsheet and make up bulk amount of working stock (< 10mL per stock)
  4. Use a syringe filter to sterile filter each condition in BSC.

DSD mixing protocol on OT2 (Day 0 and Day 5):

  1. Add mL of DMEM/F12 to wells 1 to 5 of a 12 well reservoir.
  2. Add mL 30x E6 bullet to A5 of the stock tube rack.
  3. Place the tip racks, falcon tube racks and media reservoir in the starting deck state below.
  4. Immediately prior to running the OT2 mixing protocol, use a multichannel pipette to thoroughly mix the working stocks by pipetting the solutions up and down 5-10 times within their respective wells.  DO NOT MIX THE WORKING STOCKS WITH EACH OTHER.
  5. Prepare two other tube racks with 15 sterile 15 mL falcon tubes (total 30 tubes) labelled "Condition [1-26]" or "control [1-4]".
    1. The final layout should resemble the "Layout" tab in the excel spreadsheet.
  6. Run the following OT2 mixing protocol to make DSD conditions: '2021_07_21_DSD_media_mixing.py'

Controls:

  1. Manually create extra controls: All controls will be ~ mL final volume 
    1. Control 1: E6 media control. Mix  uL E6 30X bullet with  mL DMEM/F12
    2. Control 2: E6 with 0.04% H2O control. Mix  uL sterile H2O with  uL E6 30X bullet with  mL DMEM/F12
    3. Control 3 is E6 with 0.04% v/v ethanol reconstitution buffer control. Mix uL EtOH with  uL E6 30X bullet with mL DMEM/F12
    4. Control 4 is E6 with 0.01% v/v HCl reconstitution buffer control. Mix uL 0.5 M HCl with uL E6 30X bullet with  mL DMEM/F12
  

  2. Place the labelled controls in the leftover slots of tube rack #3 (shown below). They will be re-ordered for the plate randomization step.
  3. Store these racks in the fridge (4° C).

 *To be updated - when protocol is finalised with new factors*  
Figure 2: Starting deck state for the DSD mixing protocol.Figure 3: Layout for
input vessel (tube rack #1, working stocks) and output vessels (Tube racks #2
and #3). Note that controls must be made up manually. These conditions must be
re-ordered for the next randomization step, shown below.


  
  
Day [0] + Day [5]: Plate randomisation on OT2

  1. Set up OT2 as follows:
    1. Opentrons 96 filter tip rack (1000 uL) on Position 11.
    2. Working stock racks (with 26 conditions + 4 controls) on Positions 4 and 7, respectively.
    3. 96 deep well plate labelled 'Block 1' and 'Block 2' in Positions 5 and 8, respectively.
    4. 12-well reservoir with wells 1-4 filled with 13.5 mL sterile PBS on Position 9
  2. Run the OT2 protocol for plate randomisation: "2021_07_15_12factor_DSD_Plate _Randomization.json"
  3. This will create randomised storage plates for daily feeds (Block 1 and Block 2) containing 1.2mL of media per well. Surrounding wells are filled with PBS.

  
  
Figure 5: The starting deck state for the DSD plate randomisation. Condition
Racks 1 and 2 contain conditions previously mixed using the OT.  
  
Figure 6: Final deck state after the plate randomisation protocol has been run
on the OT. The exact positions of each factor are shown on the right. The
groups of four conditions on the input plates represents one 15mL falcon tube.  
  
  




Day [0]: Switch plates to DSD conditions

  1. Warm the storage plates in the incubator for 20 minutes prior to treating the cells.
  2. Aspirate the growth media using a multi-channel pipette
  3. Transfer 140 uL from each condition to the corresponding location on the cell plate (i.e. A1 goes into A1 on the cell plate etc).
  4. Return the cell plates to the incubator and the storage plates to the fridge




Day [1] - [10]: 100% feed with DSD conditions  

  

  1. Run DSD mixing and plate randomisation on Day 10 (see above).
  2. Warm Block 1 and 2 in the incubator for at least 20 minutes before use.
  3. Perform the following steps for each column containing cells for both plates, changing tips between columns.
  4. Using a multi-channel pipette slowly aspirate and discard 140uL of media from a column (starting with Plate 1, Column 2).
  5. Slowly add 140uL/well warm DSD media from corresponding wells of the Block (i.e. from Storage Plate 1 Column 2 into Plate 1 Column 2 and so on).
  6. Return plates to incubator at 37 degrees, 5% CO2.




## Day [10]: Termination and staining on OT2  

  * Fix with 4% PFA
  * Permeabilize with PBST
  * Primary stain MyoG and MF20 and incubate stain for 90 minutes.
  * Secondary stain MyoG and MF20 and incubate stain for 90 - 120 mins.
  * Image on Zaber and analyse results with ImageJ


