

Try out:

  1. PulsePal
  2. earlier stimulation (right at start of E6)
  3. BUFFY
  4. different stimulation frequency: we currently use 2 Hz, but this paper uses 20Hz
  5.   

  6.   

  7.   

References:

1\. https://rupress.org/jgp/article/154/9/e2021ecc41/212802/On-the-molecular-
mechanism-of-
excitation?elqTrackId=a12d06cbb619412caa1d2a067cd5e70d&elq=6443f011d2eb4baca0d4bab40e8a0bfd&elqaid=32585&elqat=1&elqCampaignId=10596

An important question in neuromuscular biology is how skeletal muscle cells
decipher the stimulation pattern coming from motoneurons to define their
phenotype-activating transcriptional changes in a process named excitation-
transcription coupling. We have shown in adult muscle fibers that 20 Hz
electrical stimulation (ES) activates a signaling cascade that starts with
Cav1.1 activation, ATP release trough pannexin-1 channel, activation of
purinergic receptors, and IP3-dependent Ca2+ signals inducing transcriptional
changes related to muscle plasticity from fast to slow phenotype.
Extracellular addition of 30 µM ATP mimics transcriptional changes induced by
ES at 20 Hz. ATP release occurs in two peaks, the first around 15 s after ES
and a second around 300 s after ES. In the present work, we used apyrase to
hydrolyze ATP 60 s after ES, maintaining the first peak and eliminating the
second peak. In this condition, transcriptional changes were abolished,
indicating that the second peak is the one crucial to activate transcription.
Additionally, we observed a small depolarization of fibers after ES. The
addition of 30 to 100 µM external ATP also induced depolarization of muscle
fibers. This depolarization was unable to activate contraction but was able to
induce transcriptional changes induced by 20 Hz ES. These changes were
completely inhibited by the IP3R blocker xestospongin B, suggesting that
IP3-dependent events are triggered at these membrane depolarization values.
Moreover, transcriptional changes induced by addition of 30 µM extracellular
ATP was blocked by incubation of fibers with 25 µM Nifedipine. These results
suggest that the second ATP peak observed after 20 Hz ES is responsible for
transcriptional activation by inducing small depolarizations of fiber
membranes that are also sensed by Cav1.1. Finally, we show evidence that
downstream of purinergic receptors, PKC is activated, likely causing
phosphorylation of ClC-1 chloride channels, possibly responsible for
depolarization after 20 Hz.



  




\- Experiment with 0.5 V/cm direct current with cells. See if cells are
affected.  
\- Platinum electrodes  
  


