

## Completed by: Bonnie Tangey


Aim/Purpose


The overarching goal is to expand the Vows existing cell library to include a
broader range of species. Here, we aim to isolate a plastic adherent
population of cells from wallaby muscle tissue (which we will refer to as
WALLE cells). These cells will then be expanded to form a master cell bank
(MCB) and working cell bank (WCB).


Hypothesis


  1. 12 Vials of WALLE crude homogenate will be frozen down following Vows established protocols for cell isolation.
  2. Plastic adherent populations of cells will be established via immediate culture of WALLE crude homogenate. 
  3. The plastic adherent population of WALLE cells will be expanded in culture to an MCB of â‰¥ 15M cells. 


Technical Gap


We were unsuccessful in our previous attempts to expand WALLE cells (see here:
https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NzM2NC41fDEwNjMxNy81NjY1LTQ2NzAxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzI4MTI4NTE3MTJ8MTg2OTQuNQ==).
It is unclear if this was due to shortcomings in our cell isolation or culture
protocols. Here we plan to increase the amount of FBS in the growth media, and
to process the meat more quickly in the hope that this will result in
healthier cells and higher cell yield.




In our previous attempt to establish a MCB of plastic adherent cells from
Bennet's Wallaby muscle tissue was unsuccessful. While we were able to
establish plastic adherent cell populations from 2 of our 4 biopsies, we were
unable to maintain these cells in long term culture and to expand them to a
population of  >15M cells in order to bank an MCB. After performing a
literature review into marsupial primary cell culture, not glaring fault was
found in our protocol. The current experimental plan therefore does not
deviate significantly from the previous attempt, other than the slight
variation in growth medium from DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS to DMEM/F12 + 15% FBS. It
is hoped that the higher proportion of FBS will better support the cells. We
will also process the meat more quickly in the hope that this will result in
healthier cells and higher cell yield. We do not however, if these changes
will be significant enough to ensure we can generate a MCB.


Method/Procedure


Day 0 As soon as the samples arrive: 4x biopsies will be collected. They
should be 4-6 grams in size, with one biopsy being 6-8g so that it can be sub-
sampled for proteomics/ genomics. Biopsies should be taken from the vastus
lateralis as shown on the diagram bellow. If the sample is not large enough to
take all 4 biopsies from this site, then the Biceps femoris should also be
sampled. Cryopreservation of tissue as well as cell isolation should be
performed immediately following biopsy collection using Vows standard
procedure for cell isolation from muscle tissue. The isolate from each biopsy
should be split into 4 portions, with 1 portion being placed in immediate
culture (DMEM/F12 +15% FBS + 1x P/S) and the other 3 portions being frozen as
crude homogenate.

  
  
  

  
Day 1- Onwards Isolate in culture should be monitored and imaged daily (with
the exception of weekends) until adherent populations are well established at
which point monitoring may be reduced to every other day. Once an adherent
cell population emerges, media changes should be performed approximately every
48-72 hours. When the cells reach 80-90% confluent they should be passaged and
reseeded at a density of 7000-7500 cells/cm. Cells should be banked as an MCB
when they reach numbers of >15M cells.


