

Completed by: Bonnie Tangey




Animal source information  
  
Animal SV2 ID: 32-Wallaby-TAS  
Age: Unknown  
Sex:  Male  
Farm: Lenah Game Meats: 315 George Town Rd, Rocherlea TAS 7248




Background

Our previous attempts to isolated and culture adherent cell culture from
Wallaby muscle tissue have been unsuccessful.

In our first attempt, the meat to be processed arrived at the Vowse frozen.
Despite this, we followed VOWs standard isolation and culture protocols after
thawing the meat in the refrigerator overnight. Unsurprisingly, we were not
able to establish an adherent cell population from this homogenate. See lab
book here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NzM4MS40MDAwMDAwMDAwMDF8MTA2MzE3LzU2NzgtNDY4MDkvVHJlZU5vZGUvMzI0NTE5MDAwfDE4NzM3LjM5OTk5OTk5OTk5OA==.
While it is possible to isolate cells from small sections of frozen tissue,
the fact that the meat was not in liquid nitrogen, and cryoprotectants were
not used, makes it unlikely that viable cells remained in this instance.  
  
In our second attempt, a population of adherent cells was obtained from 2 of
the 4 biopsies processed. These cells did not did not make it past their 2nd
passage however, as they ceased to proliferate at this point (see lab book
here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NzM2NC41fDEwNjMxNy81NjY1LTQ2NzAxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzI4MTI4NTE3MTJ8MTg2OTQuNQ==
). The 2 biopsies that did not produce any adherent population were processed
1 day after the others. This indicates that the delay in processing may be at
least partially responsible for the lack of cell yield. It is unclear why the
cells we did obtain ceased to proliferate after the 2nd passage. With a view
to optimising our isolation and culture protocols for our next wallaby biopsy,
a literature review was performed looking at previously published isolation
and culture conditions for marsupials. Unfortunately, we were unable to find
any papers describing the isolation of cells from marsupial muscle tissue,
however there were several reports of isolations and culture of cells from
various organs including skin.

KEY POINTS

There are no examples of cell isolations from muscle tissue

We did not identify any papers extracting cells from marsupial muscle tissue,
but there were various papers using viscera and skin. The protocols are
therefore not likely to be directly transferable to a muscle isolation process
however we may still gain useful information from them.

All papers used gentle digestions or outgrowth methods

In general, the digestion protocols recommended for muscle tissue tend to me
more aggressive than those used for viscera or skin tissue. Even so, the
methods described in the literature used very gentle digestion, or outgrowth
only, in which the tissue is only mechanically minced before plating, with no
enzymatic digestion process. We found only 1 paper that used a fully digested
protocol to obtain cell isolate from a marsupial [1]. This paper isolated
epithelial cells from mammary tissue of tammar wallabies. They used just
0.125U/mL of collagenase II which is extremely low, and digested the tissue
for 4hrs (whereas we use 750U/ml for the first hour and then 100U/mL for a
further 30min). Another paper reported a process where they partially digested
Tamar Wallaby epididymal tissue with collagenase XI ( it was not possible to
determine the U/mL from the information given) for 6hrs before plating the
tissue like an explant culture [2]. A partial digestion system like this
wouldn't be ideal for Vow as we would need to culture all the biopsies
immediately / would not be able to store frozen isolate. However, this does
illustrate the success of milder digestion approach may be appropriate for
marsupial cells and brings into question if Vows own protocols are too harsh
on the marsupial cells. Enzymatic digestion by trypsin, pronase and
collagenase has been reported to cause irreparable damage to Marmosa cells
[3], lending credit to this theory.  

Media  
There was nothing exceptional about the media formulations described in the
literature for marsupial fibroblasts. Most used a base media of DMEM, MEM, or
F12 supplemented with 10-20% FBS which is inline with our previous marsupial
cell isolation and culture attempts at Vow where we used DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS +
1x P/S. A higher proportion of FBS in the media may better support the cells.

  

Species

Method

Cell type

Culture Media

Ref  
  
Parma Wallaby

Ear biopsy explant

Epithelial

F10 + 10-20% FBS.

[4]  
  
Tammar Wallaby

Skin explant

Fibroblast

DMEM + 10-15% FBS.

[5]  
  
Rat Kangaroo

Already established

cell lines PTK2C567 and PTK2C568

Epithelial kidney cells

DMEM +10% FBS.

[6]  
  
Tammar Wallaby

Mammary tissue, both healthy and one containing a lesion were used. Tissue was
digested using 1ug/mL Collagenase II (product website says the one they used
is â‰¥125 units/mg. This equates to 0.125U/mL which seems very low) with
pen/step/fungizone, glucose and 0.35% BSA. They used 100mL digestion media per
10g of tissue and digested at 200rpm 37C for 4 hours. They then filtered
through 150um mesh. After centrifugation the pellet was washed twice in
0.02mg/mL DNase1 + 1mg/mL trypsin inhibitor. Cells resuspended in wash media
once more before being passed through 53um mesh.

Mammary epithelial cells.

M199 + 10ng/mL EGF, 1ug/ml cortisol, 1ug/mL insulin and 10% FBS.

[1]  
  
Tammar Wallaby

Partial digestion method- Epididymal tubule were minced then digested with
0.05% type XI collagenase in culture media (its unclear how many units this
would be from the information given). They were incubated for 6hr at 37C.
After which they were washed with 6 changes of media to remove debris and
collagenase. The washed fragments were then transferred to culture vessels

Epididymal epithelial cells

RPMI 1640 +10% FBS +0.058mg insulin, 7.2ug hydrocortisone, 39.5ug
testosterone, 29ug dihydrotestosterone, 500ug transferrin, 100ug retinol
acetate + p/s  

[2]  
  
3 Species of Rock Wallaby

Ear biopsies were taken, and I presume they used outgrowth culture but it's
unclear in the methods.

Fibroblasts

AminoMAX C-100 medium (designed for amniotic fluid cells).  

[7]  
  
Rat Kangaroo

Skin and lung explants

Mixed adherent population, likely containing fibroblasts

EBM with Hanks + 15% FBS + pen/strep.

[8]  
  
Rat Kangaroo

Heart tissue collected from pouch young, cultured as explants. Of note, the
majority of their cultures did not survive beyond the 2nd passage, but they
did maintain some in cultures for over 50 passages.

Mixed adherent population, likely containing fibroblasts

EBM with double the vitamins + amino acids + 10% FBS + Pen/strep.  

[9]  
  
A range of marsupial species including Bennett's Wallaby.

Explant cultures from ear, kidney and 'body wall' biopsies taken from recently
slaughtered animals.

Fibroblasts

Hams F12 with 10% FBS.

[10]  
  
A number of species including Marsupial mouse, Easter Quoll, Fat Tailed
Dunnard.

Explant. Methods are sparse. Notably they say the tissue was put into culture
up to 4 days after tissue harvest.

Skin, heart, lung and testicular tissue

BME + 10% FBS.

[11]  
  
Marmosa

Methods were not clearly described however they claim that trypsin, pronase
and collagenase digestion cause 'irreparable damage to the cells' so they
reverted to outgrowth approaches.

Fibroblasts and epithelioid cells.  

MEM +10% FBS, but had better growth with the addition of 0.4mM L-glutamine and
0.2mM NEEA.

[3]  
  
  REFERENCES

1\.            Sharp, J.A., et al., Identification and transcript analysis of
a novel wallaby (Macropus eugenii) basal-like breast cancer cell line. 2008\.
7(1): p. 1-14.

2\.            Lin, M., R. Hess, and R.J.R.-C.-. Aitken, Induction of sperm
maturation in vitro in epididymal cell cultures of the tammar wallaby
(Macropus eugenii): disruption of motility initiation and sperm morphogenesis
by inhibition of actin polymerization. 2002\. 124(1): p. 107-117.

3\.            Thrasher, J.D., Marsupial cells in vivo and in vitro, in
Methods in Cell Biology. 1972, Elsevier. p. 127-166.

4\.            Whalley, J.M. and C.E.J.J.o.G.V. Webber, Characteristics of
parma wallaby herpesvirus grown in marsupial cells. 1979\. 45(2): p. 423-430.

5\.            Alsop, A.E., et al., Characterizing the chromosomes of the
Australian model marsupial Macropus eugenii (tammar wallaby). 2005\. 13(6): p.
627-636.

6\.            Basehoar, G. and M. Berns, Cloning of rat kangaroo cells
following laser microirradiation of selected mitotic chromosomes. 1973.

7\.            Ingles, E.D. and J.E.J.C.R. Deakin, The methylation and
telomere landscape in two families of marsupials with different rates of
chromosome evolution. 2018\. 26(4): p. 317-332.

8\.            Rohme, D.J.P.o.t.N.A.o.S., Evidence for a relationship between
longevity of mammalian species and life spans of normal fibroblasts in vitro
and erythrocytes in vivo. 1981\. 78(8): p. 5009-5013.

9\.            Van Steenis, H.J.G., Chromosomal changes in eight cell strains
of the tasmanian rat-kangaroo, Potorous tridactylis (Marsupialia). Male and
female heart fibroblasts cultured in vitro. 1973\. 44(1): p. 110-124.

10\.         Johnston, P., et al., Studies on metatherian sex chromosomes VII.
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase expression in tissues and cultured
fibroblasts of kangaroos. 1978\. 31(4): p. 415-424.

11\.         Pye, D., A. MacGregor, and J.F.J.I.v. Stanley, Marsupial cells in
long-term culture. 1977\. 13(4): p. 232-236.



  




Decisions made for Vows upcoming WALLE biopsy and isolation  
  
It was decided that we should proceed with the next wallaby biopsy and
isolation following Vows standard digestion protocol to ensure that the muscle
tissue is fully digested. The growth media will be altered to DMEM/F12 + 15%
FBS  \+ 1x P/S. It is hoped that higher proportion of FBS in the media may
better support the cells. We will process all the biopsies on the same day
that the meat arrives at the Vowse. It is hoped that processing the meat when
it is as fresh as possible will yield a larger and healthier cell population.  

  


