

## Completed by: Addy


Aim/Purpose


The aim of this experiment is to assess if early onset electrical stimulation,
in conjunction with a higher stimulation frequency (with similar voltages),
will increase the maturation of primary cells (BUFFY6) seeded on coated
plates. Maturation will be measured based on the expression of different
proteins (myogenin and intracellular myosin heavy chain), as well as via
myotube characteristics (alignment, area and morphology).

  


Hypothesis


Early onset, high frequency stimulation (at 4 and 9 V/cm, peak-to-peak at 50
Hz) using a similar set up to previous experiments will improve the maturation
of primary MuSCs, with increased cell alignment, MyoG and MyHC expression
observed in stimulated conditions compared to unstimulated conditions.


Technical Gap


In our previous study, we seeded laminin- and gelatin- coated plates with
C2C12 cells and began electrical stimulation at day two of differentiation
(when they were > 70% confluent) using the same set-up and parameters that
were used last quarter (two biphasic, charge balanced waveforms of 4 and 9 V
peak-to-peak, were delivered at a low frequency of 2 Hz). These stimulation
parameters were chosen as they were similar to protocols implemented in
literature (Park et al., 2008; Ito et al., 2014). Despite being electrically
stimulated and fixed using an automated OT2 protocol, the cells did not
delaminate which was promising. Unfortunately, upon qualitative analysis,
there were no comparable differences between the stimulated conditions and the
controls when indicators such as myogenin expression, %MyHC area and protein
content (measured using a Bradford Assay) were used.

It has been reported that using higher stimulation frequencies have been shown
to have beneficial effects on protein synthesis, cell alignment and fibre
formation (Donnelly et al., 2010; Shahin-Shamsabadi and Selvaganapathy, 2020).
As such the present study aimed to see if increasing the pulse train frequency
to 50 Hz would replicate the above findings.

  

Limitations with the present study

  1. The current set-up is only able to stimulate without rest, delivering a maximum amplitude of +/- 15 V. Many papers detail the use of a work-rest ratio in conjunction with a wide range of voltages and frequencies, which we are unable to test at present (Naumann and Pette, 1994; Donnelly et al., 2010; Khodabukus and Baar, 2012; Ko et al., 2018).
  2. The use of platinum or carbon electrodes is also quite common (at present, we are using stainless steel electrodes), which may be another reason we are not observing any significant changes due to stimulation (Park et al., 2008; Flaibani et al.,2009; Ito et al., 2014).
  3. We have yet to quantify cell counts (nuclei were stained using DAPI), %MyoG+ and %MyHC coverage in the 12 well plates as we are still in the process of writing ImageJ macros.
  4. In the previous experiment, cell aggregates were observed when differentiating C2C12 cells seeded at high densities. Despite the seeding density being lowered with our primary cells, the cultures reached > 70% confluence earlier than expected. As such, we were unable to study if having a less dense culture would influence the formation of cell aggregates.

  

References

Donnelly, K., Khodabukus, A., Philp, A., Deldicque, L., Dennis, R.G., Baar,
K., 2010. A Novel Bioreactor for Stimulating Skeletal Muscle In Vitro. Tissue
Eng. Part C Methods 16, 711-718\. https://doi.org/10.1089/ten.tec.2009.0125

Flaibani, M., Boldrin, L., Cimetta, E., Piccoli, M., Coppi, P.D., Elvassore,
N., 2009. Muscle Differentiation and Myotubes Alignment Is Influenced by
Micropatterned Surfaces and Exogenous Electrical Stimulation. Tissue Eng. Part
A 15, 2447-2457\. https://doi.org/10.1089/ten.tea.2008.0301

Ito, A., Yamamoto, Y., Sato, M., Ikeda, K., Yamamoto, M., Fujita, H.,
Nagamori, E., Kawabe, Y., Kamihira, M., 2015. Induction of functional tissue-
engineered skeletal muscle constructs by defined electrical stimulation. Sci.
Rep. 4, 4781. https://doi.org/10.1038/srep04781

Khodabukus, A., Baar, K., 2012. Defined Electrical Stimulation Emphasizing
Excitability for the Development and Testing of Engineered Skeletal Muscle.
Tissue Eng. Part C Methods 18, 349-357\.
https://doi.org/10.1089/ten.tec.2011.0364

Ko, U.H., Park, S., Bang, H., Kim, M., Shin, H., Shin, J.H., 2018. Promotion
of Myogenic Maturation by Timely Application of Electric Field Along the
Topographical Alignment. Tissue Eng. Part A 24, 752-760\.
https://doi.org/10.1089/ten.tea.2017.0055

Naumann, K., Pette, D., 1994. Effects of chronic stimulation with different
impulse patterns on the expression of myosin isoforms in rat myotube cultures.
Differentiation 55, 203-211\.
https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1432-0436.1994.5530203.x

Park, H., Bhalla, R., Saigal, R., Radisic, M., Watson, N., Langer, R., Vunjak-
Novakovic, G., 2008. Effects of electrical stimulation in C2C12 muscle
constructs. J. Tissue Eng. Regen. Med. 2, 279-287\.
https://doi.org/10.1002/term.93

Shahin-Shamsabadi, A., Selvaganapathy, P.R., 2020. Tissue-in-a-Tube: three-
dimensional in vitro tissue constructs with integrated multimodal
environmental stimulation. Mater. Today Bio 7, 100070.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtbio.2020.100070


Method/Procedure


## Method Summary

  

## Daily Procedure

D-3 Seed Culture in GM

D-1 100% media change (GM)

D0 100% media change (E6), begin stimulation, Zaber plates (every second day)

D1 100% media change (E6)

D2 100% media change (E6), Zaber plates

D3 100% media change (E6)

D4 100% media change (E6), Zaber plates [changed from 20 Hz -> 50 Hz]

D5 100% media change (E6)

D6 100% media change (E6), Zaber plates

D7 100% media change (E6)

D8 100% media change (E6), Zaber plates

D9 100% media change (E6)

D10 100% media change (E6), Zaber plates

D11 - Bradford assay? Fix Plates. Finish stimulation and cell culture.

D12 - Primary antibody staining (MyoG, MF20) + Phalloidin for f-actin

D13 - Secondary antibody staining and DAPI (MyoG, MF20)

  

Image samples

Analysis

Write report

Update Header page  

Ensure all lab books are complete & assign for review  

Have entries and report peer reviewed

Make amendments

  




## Test Conditions and Cell Requirements

Samples  
  
n=3 of cells exposed to stainless steel electrodes and electrical stimulation
(4V, peak-to-peak)  
n=3 of cells exposed to stainless steel electrodes and electrical stimulation
(9V, peak-to-peak)

n=3 of cells exposed to stainless steel electrodes (control 1)  
n=3 cells not exposed to electrodes or electrical stimulation (control 2)

= 6 stimulated samples

= 6 unstimulated conditions

###  
12 Samples Total Per Plate

### 2 Plates Total = 24 Samples

###

### Experiment Setup

###  

###  

### Stimulation Waveforms

Parameters for the PulseTrain  
  
  period:    20000 usec (0.020 sec, 50.000 Hz)  
  duration:  10000000 usec (10.000 sec)  
  
  stage    duration     output0   output1  
    0     6000 usec     4500mV     2000mV  
    1     6000 usec    -4500mV    -2000mV

  
This is programmed into the stimulator via the Serial Monitor of the Arduino
software with the following sequence:

S0,0,0,20000,10000000; 4500,2000,6000; -4500,-2000,6000

  
For detailed instructions on how to operator the stimulator, refer to the
StimJim Notion Page.




## Cell and Media Requirements

### Seeding

### Each well in the 12WP is recommended to be seeded with < 40K (35K) cells,
which equates to ~480k cells per plate.  
  
~1M cells divided up between both plates.

  

Media

Generally 36 mL of media is required per day to feed 2 x 12WP with 1.5 mL per
well of media.

The first three days of culture is generally anticipated to be done using
growth media, however the cells may reach confluence earlier and will thus
require switching to differentiation media earlier.

Since E6 has an expiry of one week, it is recommended to make up 7x50 mL (350
mL) of E6 in 50 mL aliquots when starting the differentiation stage of the
experiment. Black plastic 50 mL falcon tubes are useful for this.

Note - Please double check you have enough of all reagents before commencing
the experiment.  
Note -  Serum media will be used in this experiment (D/F + 20% FBS +1X P/S)
for cell expansion and seeding, seeing as we are already using animal
components (gelatin) and our harvests of ACF cells are typically much lower
than for serum.


