Aim


To determine the effect of media temperature on cell loss and detachment.


Hypothesis


We hypothesise that feeding our cells with cold media will result in a shock
to the cells causing them to detach from the wells. This will eventually
result in greater cell loss than that observed when adding warm media to our
cells.  


Background:


This experiment was initially designed to determine whether the high passage
number of the DOLLY12 WCB cells could be inducing senescence, ultimately
contributing to the cell loss observed during Q3 and prior. Our initial idea
was to seed our DOLLY12 WCB cells and DOLLY12 MCB cells into 4 x 96 wp (to be
fixed at different time points) and then leave them to differentiate for ten
days. In doing so, we would be able to compare the amount of cell loss
observed in our DOLLY12 WCB to that in our DOLLY12 MCB cells. This would allow
us to determine whether passage number and cell senescence is a contributing
cause of the cell loss observed during Q3 and prior given the lower passage
number of the DOLLY12 MCB when compared to DOLLY12 WCB.  However, as indicated
in the Final report of the pipetting force and drying out pilot study, the day
after seeding the DOLLY12 MCB cells died, likely due to a contamination of our
growth media with ethanol or copper sulfate. Instead of throwing out the
plates we decided to use the wells containing the DOLLY12 WCB cells to conduct
a preliminary study to observe potential differences in DOLLY12 WCB cell loss
in response to cold and warm media.

The experiment designed to determine whether senescence of late passage
DOLLY12 WCB cells was the cause of the cell loss observed in Q3 and prior was
repeated and its outcomes are summarised in Final Report MCB vs WCB.


Summary of events:


  1. Thaw DOLLY12 MCB and DOLLY12 WCB cells and seed into 6 x T175 
  2. Seed DOLLY12 MCB and DOLLY12 WCB cells into 4 x 96 wp (Columns 5 & 6 contained DOLLY12 MCB and columns 7 & 8 DOLLY12 WCB cells)
  3. DOLLY12 MCB were dead so, did not continue feeding 
  4. 50% feed DOLLY12 WCB cells with growth media
  5. D0D Fix 1 x 96 wp 
  6. D0D Change DOLLY12 WCB cells in 3 x 96 wp to E6 differentiation media 
  7. D1D Fix 1 x 96 wp
  8. D1D 100% E6 feed of wells containing DOLLY12 WCB cells in the remaining 3 x 96 wp
  9. D2D Fix 1 x 96 wp
  10. D2D 100% E6 feed of wells containing DOLLY12 WCB cells in the remaining 3 x 96 wp
  11. D3D Fix 1 x 96 wp
  12. D3D 100% E6 feed of wells containing DOLLY12 WCB cells in the remaining 3 x 96 wp
  13. D4D Fix 1 x 96 wp


Key results and findings:


 These plates have not been fixed nor stained so, these results are purely
observational.

At neither D1D, D2D, D3D nor D4D we observed any obvious differences in cell
loss and adhesion between the wells fed with warm and cold media.


Discussion and limitations:


Similarly to our pipetting force and drying out pilot study we did not fix nor
stain these plates thus, the results presented in this report are purely
observational. This is the main limitation of this pilot study, and makes it
difficult to address our aim and point out any differences accurately amongst
the conditions tested. Nevertheless, we were able to obtain preliminary data
on the effect of cold and warm media on cell loss. Based on what is observed
in the phase contrast images that can be seen in Image 1, there isn't any
evident effect of media temperature on cell loss and/or detachment during the
first four days of differentiation of DOLLY12 WCB cells. Thus, the addition of
cold media to our cells may not be the root cause of the cell loss observed
during Q3 and prior, even if a proper experiment containing controls and a
longer differentiation period is necessary to reach this conclusion.

  

Image 1: DOLLY12 WCB cells grown in cold (top row) and warm (bottom row) E6
differentiation media for days one (first column), three (second column) and
four (third column) of differentiation.


Future direction:


Eva Carreras Navarro-Dec 01, 2021, 2:13 PM AEDT

  1. Include the temperature of the media together with all the other handling conditions (pipetting force and drying out) on a single plate
  2. Keep our plates in differentiation for a longer period of time in order to determine the 'longer-term' (up to day ten of differentiation) effect of media temperature on cell loss and differentiation
  3. Stain our plates for DAPI, MyoG and MF20 to obtain accurate and quantitative data from our plates that will validate the observational data herein presented


