

Experimental rationale

The primary objective of project pool party is to get cells into suspension.
Previous research has shown that cells that have adapted to suspension from
adherent culture have different gene expression patters compared to the cells
that have not been adapted to suspension (1-3). Previous studies have used the
differential expression analysis between adherent and suspension adapted cells
to inform the manipulation of gene expression to enhance suspension adaptation
in cell lines such as HEK293 and CHO cells (1-3). We aim to use previous
learnings with respect to gene expression changes in suspension adapted cell
lines to manipulate gene expression of target genes in CHOMP cells to enhance
their ability to adapt to suspension.

Previous studies have used RNAseq to investigate the differential expression
between suspension adapted cells and adherent cells of the same cell lines and
have identified a number of genes of interest. These genes are generally
involved in a few specify functions such as extracellular matrix organisation,
cholesterol biosynthesis, locomotion, and cell adhesion (3).Given that CHOMP
cells have not previously been adapted to suspension, we are unable to perform
the same types of analysis. Therefore we will instead infer the learnings
identified in previous studies to CHOMP cells and investigate whether
manipulating the gene expression of the target genes identified by previous
studies affect the suspension adaptation in CHOMP cells.

Two previous studies have used knock down strategies to increase suspension
adaptation of cell lines. The first used siRNA to down regulate PABPC1, a gene
involved in mRNA metabolism including splicing and stability (2). This study
showed that the down regulation of PABPC1 significantly increased the rate of
adaption to suspension of CHO-K1 cells. A second study used CRISPR-Cas9 to
down regulate two genes, Igfbp4 and AqpI, in order to accelerate CHO cells
adaption to suspension(1). Igfbp4 encodes an insulin like growth factor
binding protein domain which has been consistently shown to inhibit several
types of cancer. AqpI encodes an aquaporin which functions as a molecular
water channel protein which is a potential cancer biomarker that promotes
metastasis. The 3 genes identified in these papers are all great targets for
the CRISPR targeted approach we aim to use in our research

When it comes to adaption to suspension, one of the greatest barriers is
cellular senescence. When cells undergo significant stress such as adaption to
suspension, they increase in likelihood to enter senescence (4) preventing
them from reaching or extending beyond the hayflick limit. Adapting cells to
suspension also results in increased anoikis (a type of apoptosis caused by a
lack of extra cellular matrix interactions) (5). These have both been noticed
in the CHOMP cells in our attempts to adapt them to suspension. Therefore, we
aim in this investigation to investigate the down regulation of genes that are
potentially involved in cellular senescence and anoikis in order to increase
the likelihood that cells which are able to adapt to suspension continue to
proliferate.

The RIP gene has previously been implicated in the anoikis pathway. RIP
contains a death pathway receptor and has been shown to increase in expression
when cells are grown in suspension. A previous investigation using siRNA to
knockdown Fas expression identified that cells were less likely to apoptose
when RIP was knocked down (5). PTEN is another gene that has been shown to be
involved in cell senescence and anoikis. PTEN is the 2nd most common gene
mutated in cancer cells, second only to P53. A previous study using an AVV
knockout technique showed that a PTEN knockout in MCF-10A cells prevented cell
apoptosis in suspension as well as increased growth in the absence of growth
factors (a cancer hallmark) (6). RIP and PTEN are examples of two genes
involved in anoikis we aim to manipulate in this investigation

  

1\. Lee, Namil, et al. "Targeted Gene Deletion Using DNA-Free RNA-Guided Cas9
Nuclease Accelerates Adaptation of CHO Cells to Suspension Culture." ACS
Synthetic Biology, vol. 5, no. 11, Nov. 2016, pp. 1211-19,
doi:10.1021/acssynbio.5b00249.

2\. Dai, Xiaofeng, et al. "PABPC1 Enables Cells with the Suspension
Cultivation Feature." ACS Synthetic Biology, vol. 10, no. 2, Feb. 2021, pp.
309-17, doi:10.1021/acssynbio.0c00440.

3\. Malm, Magdalena, et al. "Evolution from Adherent to Suspension: Systems
Biology of HEK293 Cell Line Development." Scientific Reports, vol. 10, no. 1,
2020, doi:10.1038/s41598-020-76137-8.

4\. Wang, Yiming, et al. "A Prospect of Cell Immortalization Combined with
Matrix Microenvironmental Optimization Strategy for Tissue Engineering and
Regeneration." Cell & Bioscience, vol. 9, no. 1, Jan. 2019, p. 7,
doi:10.1186/s13578-018-0264-9.

5\. Kamarajan, Pachiyappan, et al. "Receptor-Interacting Protein Shuttles
between Cell Death and Survival Signaling Pathways." Molecular Biology of the
Cell, edited by Kunxin Luo, vol. 21, no. 3, 2010, pp. 481-88,
doi:10.1091/mbc.e09-06-0530.

6\. Vitolo, Michele I., et al. "Deletion of PTEN Promotes Tumorigenic
Signaling, Resistance to Anoikis, and Altered Response to Chemotherapeutic
Agents in Human Mammary Epithelial Cells." Cancer Research, vol. 69, no. 21,
Nov. 2009, pp. 8275-83, doi:10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-09-1067.




Protocol Rationale

The CRISPR-Cas system has been widely used in medical research for more than 5
years and has an enormous list potential applications. The CRISPR-Cas system
harnesses a bacterial defence mechanism which results in targeted double
stranded breaks in DNA. The CRISPR-Cas system has been optimised for numerous
applications and tweaked to fit many specific needs. For example, there are
now CRISPR tools capable of targeting DNA without generating a double stranded
break to reversibly bind to targeted DNA to block the binding of other
proteins (dCas), tools to generate single stranded nicks to result in single
base pair substitutions (base editors) and tools to introduce targeted
deletions and insertions with great precision (homology directed repair)
(7-9).

In our investigation we aim to use CRISPR-Cas9 to introduce double stranded
breaks into genes which we believe could allow adaption to suspension in our
CHOMP cells. We would like these cells to be minimally mutated with no
potential for the introduction of foreign DNA. Early CRISPR techniques relied
on the use of plasmids and viruses to introduce the Cas protein and guide RNA
(9). However, these techniques require a significant amount of foreign DNA
entering the cells and potentially being incorporated into the host genome. A
new technology know as RNP CRISPR has been invented to alleviate this problem.
RNP CRISPR is a DNA free CRISPR technique which relies on the introduction of
the Cas9 protein directly along with a preassembled sgRNA complex (9). These
two components can be purchased directly without requiring pre-assembly (10).
Therefore the RNP CRISPR technology is an optimum technology for the use in
our investigation.

  

7\. Zhang, Debin, et al. "Genome Editing with the CRISPR‚ÄêCas System: An Art,
Ethics and Global Regulatory Perspective." Plant Biotechnology Journal, vol.
18, no. 8, 2020, pp. 1651-69, doi:10.1111/pbi.13383.

8\. Barman, Antara, et al. "A Glance at Genome Editing with CRISPR-Cas9
Technology." Current Genetics, vol. 66, no. 3, 2020, pp. 447-62,
doi:10.1007/s00294-019-01040-3.

9\. Kantor, Ariel, et al. "CRISPR-Cas9 DNA Base-Editing and Prime-Editing."
International Journal of Molecular Sciences, vol. 21, no. 17, Aug. 2020, p.
6240, doi:10.3390/ijms21176240.

10\. IDT website https://sg.idtdna.com/pages/products/crispr-genome-
editing/alt-r-crispr-cas9-system

  *   

  


