

Performed by: ST/EC/NH




Culture ID:

T75 - 10100,  
24 well plate - 10101




Media/Reagents used:

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
Growth Media (DMEM F12)S4255; S4293  
  
FBSA9257  
  
PBSA9351  
  
Tryple  
M7547  
  
  
  




Optimization of Neon Electroporation



Prepare cells for Neon Transfection

1\. Prepare 15mL of standard growth media without antibiotics (DMEM/F12 1:1 +
20% FBS), Aliquoted 5mL of 1x Tryple and 10mL of dPBS and placed in the bead
bath  [14:05]  

2\. Pipette 0.5mL of media into each well of a 24 well plate  [14:12]  

3\. Remove media from the cells, wash with PBS (5mL), tryplize for 5 mins in
5mL of Tryple.. [tryple added 14:23]  

4\. Quench cells with 5mL of prewarmed dPBS. Take an aliquot for counting.

5\. Count cells using a haemocytometer

Cell count: 232,000 cells/mL

6\. Determine amount of the cells in media required for the protocol and
transfer to new falcon tube [11.6 mL]. You want a total of 2.7 x 10^6 cells.
(1 x 10^5 per 24 well plus extra)

7\. Centrifuge tubes containing aliquoted and remaining cell suspension at
300g for 5 minutes.  

8\. Resuspend in 1mL PBS. This step is very important as any traces of
antibiotics in the cell culture will kill the cells following nucleofection.
Resuspended the remaining cell suspension from the initial cell count in 12mL
of Growth media containing pen/strep (DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS + 1xP/S) before
aliquoting back into a T75 flask and returning them to incubate at 30 degrees,
5% CO2 (culture 10100)  

9\. Centrifuge 300g for 5 minutes at RT.

10\. Resuspend in 265.6ul of Buffer R (for a final volume of 270uL when
plasmid has been added)

                                 

Electroporation Protocol- 24 well optimization, using 10ul kit

1\. Add plasmid DNA to the resuspended cell in R buffer. Ensure that 0.5ug of
DNA is added/10ul reaction (for 3 million cells, resuspend in 285ul of buffer
R + 15ul of plasmid (starting concentration of 1ug/ul) --> 100,000
cells/10ul)[plasmid concentration 2.717 mg/mL, 4.42 uL in 265.58]  

2\. Set up Neon tube with 3ml Electrolytic Buffer (buffer E for 10 ul) at Neon
pipette station.

3\. Use preprogrammed 24 well optimization protocol (see table below).  

4\. Push pipette down to second stop to grab the tip, release and then press
down again to completely load tip.  

5\. Push pipette to first stop to load liquid, ensure that there are no air
bubbles. Place in machine and push start.

6\. After electroporation, transfer the 10ul to the appropriate well. Swirl
plate frequently.

7\. Change optimization protocol each time. Use each tip 3x, and change buffer
E every 10x wells.

Cells were aliquoted between [15:25-15:55]. placed into the incubator at 30
degrees, 5% Co2. Culture 10101  

  

 Note: Watch machine each time to ensure no sparks.  




Optimisation day 1 table



Sample



Well no.



Pulse voltage



Pulse width



Pulse no.

Results  
  
Transfection efficiency

Cell viability  
  
1

A1

Use pre-optimized parameter or control without electroporation.  
  
2

A2

1400

20

1



  
  
3

A3

1500

20

1



  
  
4

A4

1600

20

1

 >50%

 liveish  
  
5

A5

1700

20

1

 >70%

 live  
  
6

A6

1100

30

1



  
  
7

B1

1200

30

1



  
  
8

B2

1300

30

1



  
  
9

B3

1400

30

1

 >50%

 mostly dead  
  
10

B4

1000

40

1

  
  
  
  
11

B5

1100

40

1



  
  
12

B6

1200

40

1

 >50%

 mostly dead  
  
13

C1

1100

20

2



  
  
14

C2

1200

20

2



  
  
15

C3

1300

20

2

 >50%

 liveish  
  
16

C4

1400

20

2

 >60%

 live  
  
17

C5

850

30

2



  
  
18

C6

950

30

2



  
  
19

D1

1050

30

2



  
  
20

D2

1150

30

2

 >70%

 liveish  
  
21

D3

1300

10

3



  
  
22

D4

1400

10

3



  
  
23

D5

1500

10

3



  
  
24

D6

1600

10

3

 >70%

 live


  
  
FBS used was thawed on the 21st of DEC/21, there were concerns that it may not
be the most sterile aliquot but since this is an optimization experiment we
proceeded ahead with this aliquot anyway




Well A5

  




Well C4

  




Well D2

  




Well D6

  


