

1\. Team Structure

Project Lead: Victoria

Primary Team: Victoria, Addy

Additional Support: James H, Tom, Claudia, Adrian

Oversight by: Katie, Ellen

2\. Project rationale & objectives

## 2.1 Overall objective: To establish conditions for culturing GEN1-product-
suitable animal cells in a scalable bioreactor format, ready for hand off to
pilot plant

##  

## Note: GEN1 (1st-generation) product indicates all QMS (quality management
system) requirements have been adhered to and including ACF (animal component-
free) culture conditions

  

2.2 Rationale: This project aims to de-risk the assumption that CHOMP
fibroblasts, which are the preferred cell line for GEN1 product and were
isolated in-house, are capable of expansion in a single-cell suspension
culture format. Primary, non-transformed and non-immortalised fibroblasts are
inherently an anchorage-dependent cell type (ref) and thus 'adaptation to
suspension culture' is unlikely to occur through media formulation
optimisation alone.

  

This project therefore aims to:

  

  1. Determine the suitability of aggregate encapsulation methods for suspension-format-compatible culture of CHOMP fibroblast cells

  2. Source commercially available suspension culture-adapted cell lines suitable for use as a GEN1 product

  3. Determine bench-top bioreactor culture conditions for either of the above, depending on experimental outcomes

  

2.3 Key results & objective breakdown

  

### 2.3.1 KR1: Determine feasibility of culturing FCHOMP-09 cells as
encapsulated aggregates in suspension culture format

The focus of this KR is to determine if encapsulated aggregate culture is
compatible with FCHOMP-09 cells, including maintenance, expansion, and cell
viability

Objectives:

  * Culture CHOMP fibroblasts as suspension-aggregates using fibrinogen + thrombin encapsulation

  * Culture CHOMP fibroblasts as suspension-aggregates using CHOMP ECM (extracellular matrix) media precipitate encapsulation

  * Measure viability of aggregates over time, assessing distribution of cell death/viability 

  * Measure expansion of aggregates over time, in comparison to CHOMP cells in single-cell suspension and positive control, single-cell-adapted CHO cells 

## 2.3.2 KR2: Establish MCB (master cell bank)s of GEN1-product-suitable cells
from commercially available cell lines

The focus of this KR is acquisition and expansion of suspension-adapted cell
lines of animal origin, suitable for use in a GEN1-product into a MCB to be
stored in Vow LN2 (liquid nitrogen).

Objectives:

  * Identify suitable cell lines (see Notion page for acquisition, and selection criteria)

  * Establish and acquire importation requirements, and then acquire cell lines and related media components

  * Establish MCB according to culture conditions prescribed by suppliers (may be serum-containing conditions for some lines)

  * Establish conditions for culture of x1 commercially available cell line (top-contender for back-up GEN1-suitable product) in bench-top bioreactors (see KR3, below, for further details)

2.3.4 KR3: Determine bench-top bioreactor conditions for CHOMP suspension
aggregates (if relevant) and commercial GEN1-suitable cell lines

There will be cross-communication between this project and the former
'production team' (reorganised as of 2022 to be singular 'team technology').
The focus of this KR is testing of different benchtop bioreactor culture
conditions to

  1. test if aggregate culture (if relevant, pending outcome from KR1) is suitable for bioreactor culture and to determine ideal bioreactor culture conditions

  2. Determine bioreactor culture conditions suitable for scale production of single cell suspension cell paste

  3. to batch produce single-cell cells for product development using a bioreactor format using single-cell-adpated cell line (CHO or similar, pending importation timelines)

  4. Inform pilot plant development 



Objectives:



  * Determine list of bioreactor formats for purchase

  * Order bioreactors (lead time is blocker)

  * Deploy bioreactor training for relevant users

  * Trial culture conditions (stir/motion speed, media changing, biosensors) for optimal growth

2.3.5 KR4 STRETCH: Outsource adherent cell lines to 3rd party for suspension
adaptation

The above has been identified as a stretch goal because the outcomes of this
goal are not necessary to achieve the overall objective of this project (see
2.1). Team-technology at Vow currently does not have the bandwidth to adapt
cell lines to suspension through media formulation optimisation. It is
unlikely that adult, primary fibroblasts (such as CHOMP) will adapt to
suspension without modification or immortalisation. It is more likely that
immortalised cell lines will be amenable to this process. Cell suspension
adaptation is a service offered by some biotechnology companies. The focus of
this KR is to outsource suspension adaptation of immortalised adherent cell
lines acquired by Vow to a 3rd party.

Objectives:

  * Compile list of service providers and make contact

  * Acquire adherent, immortalised cell lines suitable for suspension adaptation and use in a GEN1 (or later) product

  * Send lines to 3rd party for suspension adaptation

2.4 Roadmap (currently WIP)

See Shortcut project roadmap <link here>

2.5 Weekly goals

###  

Week starting

KR1: Aggregates

KR2: Cell line acquisition

KR3: Bioreactor and scale up

KR4: 3rd-party suspension adaptation  
  
17-Jan-2022

Test formation of aggregates with thrombin + fibrinogen (or Matrigel if above
on order has not arrived)  
  
Order rocking/gyrating platform  
  
Concretely define assays for determining viability and expansion

Meet with ProBiogen and discuss use of AGE1 cell lines  
  
Agitate for MTA and shipping ASAP

  

Purchase via ATCC (they've had their chance to respond)

Finalise list for purchase and complete ordering

Follow up with Xell  
  
1 hour allocated to finding alternative providers  
  
24-Jan-2022

  

  
  
  

  

Start work for MCB expansion of cell lines (adherent) if bandwidth permits  
  
31-Jan-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
7-Feb-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
14-Feb-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
21-Feb-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
28-Feb-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
7-Mar-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
14-Mar-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
21-Mar-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
28-Mar-2022

  
  
  
  
  
  
###  

  

  

  


