

Written by: Andrew


Background


The generation of a serum-free suspension adapted cell line is imperative for
upscaling cell culture that will allow the sustainable generation of
commercially-viable levels of cellular biomass. Upscaling traditional adherent
cell culture is challenging, attributed to the time, labour and reagent
requirements of cell detachment and reattachment during cell passaging. In
comparison, suspension culture due to its compatibility with bioreactor use,
promises a more simplified and readily upscaled workflow for large-scale cell
production (1).

  
A previous experiment https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NTM3OS40MDAwMDAwMDAwMDF8MTA2MzE3LzQxMzgvVHJlZU5vZGUvMjkwMDk3ODg3NnwxMzY1NS40)
was able to produce a proliferative, suspension adapted F_DOLLY12 culture in
CD CHO media with animal component free (ACF) supplementation (Knockout Serum
Replacement, IGF, FGF and PDGF). For this experiment we aimed to repeat this
success in both F_DOLLY12 and F_CHOMP09 cells. The effect of vessel type on
suspension adaptation was also elucidated by comparing automation-fed 50mL
shake tubes and manually-fed E125 flask. 100% media changes were performed for
all cultures, either on the automated liquid handling Opentron system (50mL
shake tubes) or manually (E125 flasks). Cells were then stained and imaged on
the Zaber, with total and dead cell counts quantified from microscopy imaging
using a an automated FIJI macro.


Key results


1\. F_DOLLY12 and F_CHOMP09 cells in serum free media (CD CHO + 10% KSR) had
better survival rates over the course of suspension adaptation than cultures
in control conditions (DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS)

2\. During suspension adaptation, there are large declines in cell number
between days 10 and 20, after which cell numbers largely fail to recover

3\. Greater cell densities were supported by E125 flasks vs 50 mL shake tubes
throughout the suspension adaptation process

4\. For both culture vessels, F_DOLLY12 in CD CHO + 10% KSR media demonstrated
increased survival to suspension adaptation in comparison to F_CHOMP09 cells

5\. We were unable to replicate the previous experiment and produce a
proliferating suspension adapted culture in serum free media




Graphpad Prism Analysis:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1G-zX8eUn2RpS3zhKRJmX81Hf8QdjDGFU/view?usp=sharing


Discussion


F_DOLLY12 in CD CHO + ACF media in E125s displayed the highest cell numbers
during suspension adaptation.  
  
All conditions demonstrated a sharp decline in cell number from day 0 to day
11 (Figure 1). F_DOLLY12 cultures in CD CHO media in both vessel types and
F_CHOMP09 in E125 flasks seemingly recovered from day 14. interestingly,
F_DOLLY12 and F_CHOMP09 cultures in D/F + FBS in E125s demonstrated a similar
recovery at day 18.  By day 32, all cultures had either failed or were in
decline (F_DOLLY12, CD CHO, E125).

To determine any significant differences between conditions, total cell counts
and total dead cell counts (as cells/mL) over the time series was compared
using two-way ANOVA and a Fisher's LSD test (Î± = 0.05, confidence level,
p<0.05). For both F_DOLLY12 and F_CHOMP09, there was a significant difference
between CD CHO + 10% ACF supplementation in E125 flasks and control (D/F +
FBS) for more than 50% of timepoints. F_DOLLY12 cultured in CD CHO + 10% ACF
supplementation in E125 flasks produced significantly higher cell counts than
CD CHO in 50mL tubes for 50% of timepoints. This was not seen in F_CHOMP09,
with a significant difference between 50 mL tubes and E125s in CD CHO media
for fewer than 50% timepoints. This is likely due to overall low cell counts
for all F_CHOMP09 cultures suggesting that for the conditions used in this
experiment, CHOMP cells were not as suited for suspension adaptation than
F_DOLLY12 due to low cell survival.  
  
There were no significant differences in total dead cell count between all
conditions  
Overall there was no significant difference in dead cell counts for all
conditions. However, of note there are notable spikes in dead cell counts for
the CD CHO + ACF (50mL tube) and D/F + FBS (E125) at day 7 and day 21
respectively (Figure 2). It is also worth noting that there were numerous
timepoints with dead cell counts of 0, suggesting a possibility that the Sytox
green stain used to quantify dead cells may be unreliable.  
  
The conditions tested were not suitable for the generation of a suspension
adapted cell line  
Since F_DOLLY12 in CD CHO + ACF in E125 flasks demonstrated the highest cell
counts after 32 days, maintenance of these cultures continued to day 53.
Unfortunately, there was no evidence of cell proliferation, with cell counts
continuing to decline. Interestingly, cells from one of the F_DOLLY12 CD CHO
E125 cultures showed similar cell morphology (rounded, large, bright halo)
compared to the previous successful suspension culture when viewed under phase
microscopy with trypan blue.




  

Figure 1. Total cell count (cells/mL) of F_CHOMP09 and F_DOLLY12 cells over 32
days of suspension adaptation. Cells were seeded in either 50mL tubes or e125
flasks in 2 different media conditions, animal component free media (CD CHO +
10% KSR) and negative control (DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS). Data points represent the
mean and error as standard error of 3 biological replicates for each
condition.  
  




  
Figure 2. Total dead cell count (cells/mL) of F_CHOMP09 and F_DOLLY12 cells
over 32 days of suspension adaptation. Cells were seeded in either 50mL tubes
or e125 flasks in 2 different media conditions, animal component free media
(CD CHO + 10% KSR) and negative control (DMEM/F12 + 10% FBS).  Data points
represent the mean and error as standard error of 3 biological replicates for
each condition.




  

Figure 3. Total cell count (cells/mL) of  F_DOLLY12 cells in E125 flasks over
53 days of suspension adaptation. Data points represent the mean and error as
standard error of 3 biological replicates for each condition.




Figure 4. Cell morphology was similar between the previous successful
suspension adapted F_DOLLY12 culture from EPIC22586 (left,  day 51, culture ID
7694) and the F_DOLLY12 CD CHO E125 culture from this experiment (right, day
18, culture ID: 8639). Cells were stained with trypan blue and imaged under
phase microscopy using a 10x objective.


Limitations


Despite using the exact same conditions as those used in EPIC22586, this
experiment was unable to replicate the previously seen results and produce a
suspension adapted F_DOLLY12 or F_CHOMP09. The phase microscopy images suggest
the cells are indeed undergoing similar morphological changes however, these
cells are unable to proliferate as desired. It is unclear whether this is due
to a lack of essential component in the media formulation to support
proliferation or the suspension adaptation process is causing these cells to
undergo senescence.  
  
Precipitate formation from Hoechst Readyflow staining was evident on multiple
timepoints during microscopy imaging, at times to the point where cell count
data had to be omitted due to an overwhelming amount of precipitate.
Precipitate presence was shown (EPIC26777) to cause false positives with use
of the automated macro, leading to an overestimation of cell counts. Exactly
how many of the data points that have been potentially affected by this
overestimation is unclear.  
  


Conclusions


This experiment was unable to generate a proliferative, suspension adapted
cell line of F_DOLLY12 or F_CHOMP09. CD CHO + ACF media in E125 flasks
supported the highest cell counts in F_DOLLY12 cells throughout suspension
adaptation. None of the conditions used in this experiment were suitable for
the adaptation of F_CHOMP09 to suspension. Furthermore, E125 flasks
outperformed 50 mL shake tubes suggesting this vessel type is more well-suited
for suspension adaptation.


Next steps


From the results of this experiment it is recommended that E125 flasks should
be used for future suspension adaptation workflows.  
  
Further investigation into what occurs during the large decline in cell counts
between days 10 and 20 (described as the "Valley of Death") should be further
investigated. It is possible that preventing this decline may be essential for
the generation of a suspension adapted cell line. One possible explanation for
the "Valley of Death" may be that cells have a different metabolic profile at
this timepoint and have different growth requirements or require different
cellular signals in order to survive and proliferate, thus further work should
explore whether changing conditions (eg. basal media, supplementation) will
better support cell populations during the "Valley of Death". Additional work
should also aim to characterise this cell population in terms of gene
expression (transcriptomics), cell morphology and proliferative ability (cell
cycle characterisation).  
  
Furthermore, additional investigation into why the manually fed E125 flasks
outperformed the automatically fed 50mL shake tubes should be performed.
Apparent factors such as differences in volume, surface area and vessel shape
and the impact these have on gas exchange are potential important
considerations for suspension adaptation. Identifying which of these factors
are essential will be important to formulate ideal conditions for future
suspension adaptation work. Using automated systems is ideal to facilitate
upscaling and high throughput workflows, therefore, optimising the use of 50mL
shake tubes which are compatible with the automated Opentron system will also
be a potential focus of future work. Currently, automated feeds require
cultures to be open on the Opentron deck for around 1.5 hours during automated
feeding. It is possible that this prolonged exposure to the air may result in
pH changes, which in turn is negatively impacting cell survival, thus
explaining the failure of these cultures. Confirming whether this is occurring
could be a potential focus for future work.


References


  1\. Shen, Chun Fang, et al. "Development of Suspension Adapted Vero Cell
Culture Process Technology for Production of Viral Vaccines." Vaccine, vol.
37, no. 47, 2019, pp. 6996-7002, doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2019.07.003.








