

## Completed by: Chris


Aim/Purpose


Cells did not adhere in a previous experiment due to lack of attachment sites.
In this study we investigate the addition of RGD peptide sequences to improve
cell adhesion inside alginate hydrogels.


Hypothesis


A combination of gel stiffness and RGD binding sites can provide encapsulated
cells with a suitable environment to promote adhesion and differentiation.


Technical Gap


There may be additional reasons why cells did not adhere inside Alginate gels
(e.g. stiffness, oxygen/nutrient starvation towards bead core). Furthermore,
it is unclear if non-covalently bound RGD (opposed to gels discussed in
literature) will retain RGD peptide in the matrix for long enough to promote
cell adhesion or if RGD will rapidly diffuse out.







## Study setup:

  1. Cell expansion of BUFFY primary cells
  2. Preparation of materials
  3. Day 0: Cell harvest and seeding into gel matrices in "meatballs" vs non-cell-laden control samples (see platemap below)
  4. Day 1: 100% GM feed, may help the cells establish themselves better and potentially even proliferate before the switch to Diff media
  5. Day 2: switch media to E6 and start differentiation
  6. Day 3: assess viability using CMFDA or MTT assay for half of each sample sacrificed other half fix (and stain with Day6 samples) , 100% feed
  7. Day 4: 100% feed
  8. Day 5: 100% feed
  9. Day 6: 100% feed
  10. Day 7: assess maturity of muscle using (immunostaining and) total protein quant.


Method/Procedure


## Materials Prep

Preparation of 4% Alginate solution: from previous study

Preparation of 100mM CaCl2: from previous study

RGD peptide: There's 3 aliquots of it in the main lab, right -20 freezer in
one of the freezer bags on the second shelf

10mM or 3.46mg/mL in about 1.3 mL (split over 3 aliquots) = ~ 400 uL per
aliquot

A study by Shagufta H Shabbir, that looks at the effects of an inhibitor of a
Cell Adhesion Receptor on Cell Migration, found that the migration rate will
continue to increases with the concentration of inhibitor and reaches a
maximum of 28±11 μm h−1 at 100 μm. Again, a Student's t-test showed that the
increase in rate compared to that for cells treated with 50 μm was
statistically significant (P>0.05). This maximum rate was 2.5-fold greater
than that without inhibitor present and shows the significant influence that
the inhibitor can have in promoting migration. The cell migration rates at 25
μm and 50 μm peptide were 17±7.7 μm h−1 and 18±7.7 μm h−1, respectively, which
corresponded to a statistically insignificant difference (P<0.05). Higher
concentrations of peptide (250 and 500 μm) compromised the adhesion and
spreading of cells and did not yield useful migration rates.  
Based on this study, we will need to dilute our stock RGD 100x to avoid
inhibition!!




## Encapsulation of cells

  1. centrifuge ~ XXX M cells and resuspend in growth media to a total max volume of XXX mL       time  
  2. Prepare cell suspensions in alginate at 1% and 2% final Alginate density:
    1. 1/2 of volume = 4% (or 2% Alginate prediluted with media)
    2. 1/3 of volume = cell suspension (or cell free substitute) to result in 13 M cells/mL
    3. 1/6 of volume = RGD peptide (mix in last and immediately form meatballs)
  3.  Prepare cell free alginate gel only and dispense first:   time    

    1. using a P200 for each condition, produce gel droplets at the pipette tip and drop into a Calcium bath (1.5mL in 24wp well) from a close distance (to avoid deformation and maintain spherical shape). 5 "meatballs" per well only to allow for sufficient media to feed the encapsulated cells
  4. Gelation will occur within 2 minutes, but allow approximately 5 minutes for firm gel formation.
  5. Transfer all inserts to a new plate preloaded with 1.5 mL media (wash 1) for 2 min
  6. Transfer all inserts to a new plate preloaded with 1.5mL media (wash 2) for 2 min
  7. Transfer all inserts to a new plate preloaded with 1.5 mL media
  8. Put plate in incubator
    1. PLATE ID:
    2. PLATE LOCATION: 

PLATEMAP

  


