

Experimental overview

A total of nine conditions were tested for their suitability as a scaffold in
cell culture. The conditions tested included:

  1. Gluten 
  2. Wheat flour + gluten 
  3. Wheat flour 
  4. Dried beancurd sticks (dry autoclaved)
  5. Dried beancurd sticks (wet autoclaved) 
  6. Dried beancurd knots (dry autoclaved)
  7. Dried beancurd knots (wet autoclaved)
  8. Fried beancurd sheets (dry autoclaved)
  9. Fried beancurd sheets (wet autoclaved)

The conditions before autoclaving

Out of the nine conditions, seven survived autoclaving. The dried beancurd
sticks (wet autoclaved) almost completely dissolved, and the fried beancurd
sheets (wet autoclaved) became extremely soggy and could not be handled with
tweezers.

The seven remaining scaffold conditions were plated into 3 x 6-well-plates (3
reps of each condition), with 7 mL of DMEM media per well to ensure each piece
was entirely covered. The plates were then incubated at 37'C (cell culture
conditions). The samples were checked approximately every hour for the first
four hours, and then again roughly 24 hours after plating. At each checkpoint,
the samples were both observed by eye and also picked up and manipulated with
sterile tweezers.

Results

It appeared that dry autoclaving was more beneficial to the long-term
structural integrity of the conditions in the media. The sole condition that
survived the wet autoclave sample (the dried beancurd knots) was easily torn
and difficult to handle by the 24H time-point.

The fried beancurd was extremely soft and floppy by the 24H time-point, and
also appeared to deposit a fair amount of oil in the media based on the
presence of oil droplets. The media was also quite cloudy, indicating that the
sample was disintegrating. This would not be a suitable scaffold material.

The dried beancurd knots (wet autoclaved) maintained their form in media after
24H, however by the final time-point they were difficult to move without
tearing and had become extremely soft (similar to very overcooked pasta).

Dried beancurd knots (wet autoclaved)

The gluten, gluten + wheat flour, and wheat flour samples all appeared and
felt fairly similar after 24H in media. The wheat flour was slightly more
resistant to squeezing with tweezers and more dense than the other conditions,
however they were all bouncy and all maintained their form. All three
conditions appeared to become more porous after the dry autoclave run, which
would be beneficial for media perfusion. The samples used in this experiment
were fairly thick, however a thinly sliced sample would be more suitable for
cell culture.

  

Gluten

Gluten + wheat flour

  

Wheat flour

Both the dried beancurd sticks (dry autoclaved) and the dried beancurd knots
(dry autoclaved) maintained their form in media after 24H. The media had some
particles, but were less cloudy than other samples e.g. the fried beancurd
sheets. They were inelastic but flexible, easy to move with tweezers, and
resembled skin. The dried beancurd sticks also have a "folded" architecture,
creating lots of grooves and indents that may promote cell adhesion based on
our observations of how cells adhere to zein.

 Dried beancurd sticks (dry autoclaved)

Dried beancurd knots (dry autoclaved)

Summary

Overall, the most promising samples for cell culture scaffolds are the dried
beancurd sticks and dried beancurd knots sterilised via a dry autoclaved run.
The gluten + wheat flour and the gluten scaffolds are also promising, but
would need to be cut into thinner sheets which may be difficult to achieve.

Sample

Sterilisation method

Take forward for cell culture testing?

Comments  
  
Dried beancurd sticks

Dry autoclave

YES

Nice thin sheets, kept form after 24H in media  
  
Dried beancurd sticks

Wet autoclave

NO

Dissolved during autoclaving  
  
Dried beancurd knots

Dry autoclave

YES

Nice thin sheets, kept form after 24H in media  
  
Dried beancurd knots

Wet autoclave

NO

Became too soft and tear-able after 24H in media  
  
Fried beancurd sheets

Dry autoclave

NO

Became extremely soggy and delicate after 24H in media  
  
Fried beancurd sheets

Wet autoclave

NO

Became extremely soggy and delicate after autoclaving  
  
Gluten

Dry autoclave

YES

Pores developed after autoclave, kept form after 24H in media, not as dense as
wheat flour  
  
Gluten + wheat flour

Dry autoclave

YES

Pores developed after autoclave, kept form after 24H in media, not as dense as
wheat flour  
  
Wheat flour

Dry autoclave

NO

Too firm and dense  
  
Future steps

  * Determine how thinly we can slice the gluten and gluten+wheat flour samples using in-house methods (aka sterilised scalpels and tweezers) 
  * Test replicates of dried beancurd knots, dry beancurd sticks, gluten and gluten+wheat flour sterilised via a dry autoclave run with cells 




Report on the seeding of Gluten samples with DOLLY12  
  
Some cell adherence was observed on the gluten samples after day 1 in
proliferation media. However, due to sample contamination very little data
could be extracted from these samples. It is likely that the food substance
'wheat flour' was the source of contamination, and subsequently only lab grade
gluten will be used in future experiments when preparing gluten.


