

## Completed by: AK




See here for background information related to single cell cloning (SCC) and
use of ultra low attachment plates for current/past suspension cloning
experiments.

Previous SCC experiments at Vow are characterised by the process of FACS
sorting individual cells into single wells in order to generate a clonal
population derived from a single parent cell. Whilst this approach has
successfully been applied to generate clonal populations of both fibroblast
and muscle stem cells, a central aspect to its approach involves only sorting
one cell per well. This has been necessary in order to confirm that any
population that arises from a clone did indeed originate from a single cell.
However, in order to accomplish this, the plates are required to be imaged
and/or stained across several timepoints during the cloning process, for
example at day 1, 2, 3, 7, 10 etc. Consequently, this can result in
significant portion of time being allocated to the imaging and/or staining of
the plates. Therefore this current approach seeks to apply the overall same
approach, however will differ by two aspects. Firstly, this cloning run will
involve seeding more than one cell per well as cells typically prefer to be
cultured with additional cells in close proximity. Secondly following the FACS
sort at the Garvan these cells will remain in culture for a minimum of 30
days, without any imaging and/or staining. Preliminary evidence has suggested
that CHOMP fibroblasts may survive and proliferate when seeded into 384 ULA
plates, and therefore this experiment will involve replicating those initial
results in addition to evaluating addition media conditions. Any cultures that
appear to have survived and proliferated following the 30 day timepoint
observation will be subsequently passaged into larger vessels to continue
expanding cell numbers.


