

General articles:

1\. What stimulates hypertrophy and muscle growth?
https://medium.com/@SandCResearch/what-causes-muscle-growth-c2744537ab0a

2\. Blood flow restricted training and its effect on muscle growth:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30011262/

3\. Exercising Bioengineered Skeletal Muscle In Vitro: Biopsy to Bioreactor
(see in Vow Mendeley: DOI 10.1007/978-1-4939-8897-6_5)

4\. Cellular dynamics of myogenic cell migration: molecular mechanisms and
implications for skeletal muscle cell therapies,
https://www.embopress.org/doi/full/10.15252/emmm.202012357, Summary: lysine is
an essential amino acid for protein synthesis. Article is mostly on muscle
cell migration, we might be able to leverage some of the stimulants to get our
cells to rearrange faster?

  

5\. The Role of Matrix Stiffness in Regulating Cell Behavior,
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18307210/, Summary: E of muscle is more than
12 kPa and that of tendon and cartilage is in the range of megapascals. Cells
mechanosense over relatively short distances, roughly the width of an adjacent
cell5; thus, in a tissue, a cell is unlikely to sense mechanical forces beyond
its near neighbor. Cells cultured on top of feeder cells adopt a phenotype
reflecting the stiffness of the feeder layer, consistent with short-range
mechanosensing and suggesting that cell- cell interactions are similar to
cell-matrix interactions. Myoblasts, for example, form striations only when
co-cultured on top of glass-attached myoblasts (with a stiffness of 12-15
kPa), not when on top of a softer layer of glass-attached fibroblasts (2-5
kPa).

  



6\. A Muscle Stem Cell Support Group: Coordinated Cellular Responses in Muscle
Regeneration, see Mendeley also, Summary:




Other notes and references:

1\. Physical Chemistry of Gases: Gas Exchange,
https://ecurriculum.som.vcu.edu/portal/resources/2009/physio/PhysicalChemGas/lecture.pdf

2\. Surface curvature effect:  myoblasts grown on surfaces 7.5-15 mm in
diameter showing prevalent migration and alignment parallel to the curvature
axis. Moreover, surfaces within this curvature range promote myoblast
differentiation and the formation of denser, more compact tissues comprising
highly oriented multinucleated myotubes.
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/adbi.202000280

3\. VEGF and bFGF induction by nitric oxide is associated with hyperbaric
oxygen-induced angiogenesis and muscle regeneration,
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-59615-x.pdf, Summary: Hyperbaric
oxygen significantly increased NO3 −, VEGF, and bFGF levels and stabilized
HIF1α within 1 day. HBO promoted blood vessel formation at 3-7 days and muscle
healing at 5-7 days after contusion.




Literature Reviews:

Physically Active Bioreactors for Tissue Engineering Applications

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/adbi.202000125

  

Mechanical Stimulation

  

Electrical Stimulation

  

Magnetic Stimulation

  




Link to bioreactor -  multiple bioreactor designed specifically for fragile
adherent cell culture applications, such as stem cell cultures.

https://shop.pall.com/us/en/biotech/cell-culture/bioreactors/zidhw7uq21i

  


