Key findings:


  * Picking 96 clones from a 384 well plate (25%) was performed in ~ 48 minutes (70% time reduction compared to adherent picking [157 minutes])
  * Picking 48 clones from a 96 well plate (50%) was performed in ~ 37 minutes (72% time reduction compared to adherent picking [132 minutes])
  * Picking 24 clones from a 24 well plate (100%) was performed in ~ 17 minutes (76% time reduction compared to adherent picking [72 minutes])
  * Process up to ten 384 well plates in a single working day eliminating the Day 10 picking bottleneck 


Results/Discussion:


The purpose of this investigation was to modify all existing single and multi-
well picking protocols (384>96, 96>24, 24>6) for redeployment into suspension
culture cloning experiments. Theoretically as suspension cells do not adhere
to culture surfaces, they are not required to be treated with any detachment
enzymes (tryple, trypsin, etc), or washed with PBS (which is utilised to
remove any FBS content which can bind to and deactivate detachment enzymes).
All existing adherent single/multi well picking protocols are comprised of
four major steps; initially removing the growth media, washing cultures with
PBS, treating with tryple and finally transferring the detached cells into the
new culture vessel following resuspension. Fortunately, as previously
mentioned this eliminated both the PBS wash and tryple treatment from the
suspension protocols. Thus all suspension cloning protocols were entirely
composed of an initial resuspension step followed by a transfer step.
Separately, time projections based off existing adherent multi well picking
protocols for 384>96 highlighted that the Day-10 picking of cell clonal
populations was a severe bottleneck. In essence this timepoint represents 10
days after cell seeding at which fibroblasts are sufficiently confluent in
wells of a 384 well plate to be passaged. The time required to passage 25% of
a single 384 well plate has been determined to be approximately 155 minutes (2
hrs and 35 minutes). Therefore within a single working day (8 hrs) only 3.2
plates could be passaged, which hinders our ability in processing 10,000
clones per moth according to KR4, based of this projection. Therefore, it was
expected that removing both the PBS wash and tryple treatment steps would
dramatically reduce the time taken to pick clones and thus expand our current
throughput. In order to accomplish this, the single well protocols were
initially optimised for suspension culture conditions, which could then be
used to generate the multi-well picking protocols.  

Figure 1 highlights the time comparison between adherent and suspension multi
well picking protocols, across the three designed protocols (384>96, 96>24,
24>6). It is necessary to note that these times were generated by testing the
time taken for an Opentrons to passage 25%, 50%, or 100% of the harvested
plate (i.e., 96 clones [25% of 384] for the 384>96, 48 clones [50% of 96] for
the 96>24, 24 clones [100% of 24] for the 24>6). In addition only the 384>96
multi well picking protocols was tested using a growth media run, whilst the
other two were extrapolated from the single well picking times. Importantly,
and as expected, eliminating the PBS wash and tryple treatment drastically
reduced the time taken to pick 96 clones using the 384>96 multi-well picking
protocol. Compared directly to the adherent protocol, there was a ~70%
reduction in time taken to passage 96 clones, and took a total of 48 minutes
for a single plate. Consequently, this ensures that up to 10 384 well plates
can be passaged in a single working day, assuming only 25% of cones are taken
forward from each plate. As previously mentioned both the 96>24 and 24>6
suspension multi-well protocols were not tested using a growth media run.
However single picking times for the 384>96 were determined to be 30.5
seconds, which if extrapolated to 96 clones equated to approximately 48
minutes. Thus, despite not testing the other two multi well picking protocols
we are confident that the single picking times are reflective of picking
multiple wells. Similar to the 384>96 time reduction, both the 96>24 and 24>6
multi-well picking times for suspension conditions were significantly reduced.
A 95 minute reduction (~72%) between the 96>24 suspension and adherent
protocols was observed, whilst a 76% reduction (72 to 17 minutes) for the 24>6
was displayed. Taken together these results indicate that a  ≥ 70% time
reduction can be expected when adjusting adherent cloning passaging protocols
to suspension culture conditions.

  

  

Figure 1: Comparison of picking times for both suspension and adherent multi-
well protocols. Picking times were generated by testing the time taken for the
Opentrons to pick 25%, 50%, or 100% of the harvested plate (i.e., 96 clones
[25% of 384] for the 384>96, 48 clones [50% of 96] for the 96>24, 24 clones
[100% of 24] for the 24>6). S = suspension, A = adherent.


Limitations:


A limitation concerning this study was that none of the adapted multi-well
picking protocols for suspension culture were evaluated using either primary
or commercial suspension adapted cell lines. Therefore it remains unclear at
this point if additional optimisation is required for each of the protocols
developed in order to retain as many cells as possible during the resuspension
and transfer steps. Furthermore the protocol designed for the 24>6 picking
requires additional optimisation, due to an issue encountered with regards to
dead volume. Wherein, due to the relatively large surface area of the well
approximately 100 uL of growth media remains spread over the surface area and
is unable to be aspirated. Additionally, this finding was irrespective of
setting the aspiration height of the Opentrons pipette to its lowest setting.


Conclusion:


All existing adherent single well picking protocols were successfully adapted
to suspension culture conditions. In all instances this resulted in a ≥ 70%
time reduction in the time taken to pick either 25%, 50% or 100% of clones
based off which harvested flask type the clones were passaged from.
Additionally, a growth media run confirmed that the time taken to pick 96
clones (25%) from a 384 well plate took ~48 minutes, ensuing that up to ten
384 plates can be processed in a single day, greatly expanding our current
throughput compared to adherent cells.  


Future Directions:


  * Evaluate all three protocols with CHO-S suspension adapted cells to determine if resuspension and transfer Opentrons settings require additional optimisation in regards to effectiveness of aspirating all cells. 
  * Continue optimising the 24>6 picking protocol to remove the remaining media. Only perform if feasible and if this picking represents a significant blocker in terms of time required to process a large number of clones.


