

Performed by: ST/EC/NH




Culture ID:

Flask T-75: 10100

Flask T-175: 10111




Media/Reagents used:

  

NameDetails (reagent ID)  
Growth Media (DMEM F12)s4293, s4255,  
  
Growth media (with P/S)  
A9127  
  
FBS  
a9262  
  
PBSA9351  
  
Tryple  
M7547  
  
  
  




Optimization of Neon Electroporation



Prepare cells for Neon Transfection

1\. Prepare 15mL of standard growth media without antibiotics (DMEM/F12 1:1 +
20% FBS), Aliquoted 5mL of 1x Tryple and 10mL of dPBS and placed in the bead
bath  [13:55 - 14 :15]  

2\. Pipette 0.5mL of media into each well of a 24 well plate and place in the
incubator at 30 degrees, 5% CO2. [14:12]  

3\. Remove media from the cells, wash with PBS (5mL), tryplize for 5 mins in 5
ml [tryple added 14:15 ]. This was repeated for T175 Flask (ID: 10111) given
we didn't harvest enough cells from the T75 flask (10 ml Tryple warmed from
15:18-15:23).  

4\. Quench cells with 5mL (T-75 flask)/ 10 ml (T-175 flask) of prewarmed dPBS.
Take an aliquot for counting.

5. Centrifuge tube at 300g for 5 minutes and resuspend pellet in 1mL growth media (T75) or 3mL of growth media (T175) containing no penstrep.  

6. took a 10uL aliquot and Counted cells using a haemocytometer

Cell count: 2.2M  

7\. Transfer all of the cell suspension to a sterile 1.5mL eppendorf tube.

8\. Centrifuge tube in microfuge at 300g for 5 minutes.  

9\. Remove supernatant and resuspend in 1mL PBS. This step is very important
as any traces of serum in the cell culture will kill the cells following
nucleofection.

10\. Centrifuge 300g for 5 minutes at RT.

11\. Resuspend in 215.95ul of Buffer R (for a final volume of 220uL when
plasmid has been added)

                                 

Electroporation Protocol- 24 well optimization, using 10ul kit

1\. Add plasmid DNA to the resuspended cell in R buffer. Ensure that 0.5ug of
DNA is added/10ul reaction (for 3 million cells, resuspend in 285ul of buffer
R + 15ul of plasmid (starting concentration of 1ug/ul) --> 100,000
cells/10ul)[plasmid concentration 2.717 mg/mL, 4.05 uL in 215.95 ul R buffer]  

2\. Set up Neon tube with 3ml Electrolytic Buffer (buffer E for 10 ul) at Neon
pipette station.

3\. Use preprogrammed 24 well optimization protocol (see table below).  

4\. Push pipette down to second stop to grab the tip, release and then press
down again to completely load tip.  

5\. Push pipette to first stop to load liquid, ensure that there are no air
bubbles. Place in machine and push start.

6\. After electroporation, transfer the 10ul to the appropriate well. Swirl
plate frequently.

7\. Change optimization protocol each time. Use each tip 3x, and change buffer
E every 10x wells.

Cells were aliquoted between [16:45-17:15]. Placed into the incubator at 30
degrees, 5% Co2. Culture 10163  

  

 Note: Watch machine each time to ensure no sparks.  




Optimisation day 2 table

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  


Sample



Well no.



Pulse voltage



Pulse width



Pulse no.

Results  
  
Transfection efficiency

Cell viability  
  
1

A1

1725

20

1  
  
  
  
2

A2

1625

20

1



  
  
3

A3

1650

 20

1



  
  
4

A4

1675

20

1



  
  
5

A5

1700

20

1



  
  
6

A6

1750

20

1



  
  
7

B1

1100

30

2



  
  
8

B2

1125

30

2



  
  
9

B3

1150

30

2



  
  
10

B4

1175

30

2



  
  
11

B5

1200

30

2



  
  
12

B6

1225

30

2



  
  
13

C1

1325

20

2



  
  
14

C2

1350

20

2



  
  
15

C3

1375

20

2



  
  
16

C4

1400

20

2



  
  
17

C5

1425

20

2



  
  
18

C6

1450

20

2



  
  
19

D1

1550

10

3



  
  
20

D2

1575

10

3



  
  
21

D3

1625

10

3



  
  
22

D4

1650

10

3



  
  
23

D5

1675

10

3



  
  
24

D6

1600

10

3






  
  
## Reference images:

Culture 10111 prior to passage:


