Key Result(s)


  1. 12 Vials of WALLE crude homogenate were frozen down from 4 biopsies, following Vows established protocols for cell isolation.
  2. Plastic adherent populations of cells were established via immediate culture of WALLE06, WALLE07, WALLE08 and WALLE09  crude homogenate, and were first observed after 6-7 days in culture.   
WALLE08 cell numbers never approached confluence and therefore never underwent
a passage.  
WALLE06 underwent 5 passages and had an average doubling time of 11.87 days  
WALLE07 underwent 4 passages and had an average doubling time of 35.23 days  
WALLE09 underwent 4 passages and had an average doubling time of 46.34 days

  3. We were unable to expand and of our cell lines to an MCB of ≥ 15M cells. This was due to extremely slow cell proliferation.
  4. Last ditch efforts to kick-start p5 WALLE06 proliferation via seeding cells into media containing a higher proportion of FBS, into conditioned media, or by seeding at a higher cell density were all unsuccessful.  
  5. WALLE08 was terminated after 14 days, WALLE07 was terminated after 50 days, and WALLE06 + WALLE09 were terminated after 53 days in culture. 


Discussion of Results


2 biopsies were collected from the vastus lateralis and 2 from the biceps
femoris. All samples were processed within a few hours of the biopsies being
collected, following Vows standard procedures for the biopsy and isolation of
primary cells from mammalian tissue (See SOP here:
https://www.notion.so/vow/VSOP-074_0-Digestion-of-animal-derived-biopsies-and-
the-isolation-of-cells-in-vitro-for-mammalian-
ce-42595d10fc5d47e0b6754d8f1049d32b). The crude homogenate from each biopsy
was split into 4 portions, with ¾ of each being cryopreserved, and the
remaining ¼ placed into immediate culture in DMEM/F12 + 15% FBS + 1x P/S at
37°C and 5% C02.  
  
As was seen in our previous Bennett's Wallaby cell isolation attempt, we
establish adherent cultures, but were not able to expand them to the >15M
cells required for an MCB due to slow cellular proliferation. See previous lab
book here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NzM2NC41fDEwNjMxNy81NjY1LTQ2NzAxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzI4MTI4NTE3MTJ8MTg2OTQuNQ==

Of note, is that in both cells took a long time a long time to disassociate
from the cell surface (>30min Trypilise), which is likely to have damaged the
cells. We attempted using Trypsin instead of Tryple as well as washing the
cells multiple times with Tryple or PBS prior to passaging however were unable
to reduce the time taken to disassociate the cells. Manual dissociation with a
cell scraper may reduce the likelihood of cell damage during passages, however
this involves more manual handling and may therefore not be scalable.


Limitations


While we were successful in establishing an adherent cell population from all
of our biopsies, we were unable to maintain these cells in long term culture
and to expand them to a population large enough for a MCB. This suggests that
culture conditions are not optimised for use with adherent primary cells
derived from wallaby muscle tissue. Prior to commencing this experiment
however, a literature review examining isolation and culture techniques for
marsupial primary cells was performed, and no obvious flaw in our culture
conditions was identified. For a summary of the review, see background section
here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NzI0Ni4yfDEwNjMxNy81NTc0LTQ2ODExL1RyZWVOb2RlLzMwMTU4MDI5NDd8MTgzOTQuMg==


Conclusion(s)


It appears that the culture conditions used here were not optimal for WALLE
cell proliferation. Following an extensive literature review on marsupial cell
culture however, no significant shortcomings in our media formulations were
identified. It is possible that the long Tyrpelisation times required to
disassociate these cells during passages resulted cell damage.


Future Direction(s)


For the foreseeable future, Vow will not further pursue the addition of
Bennet's Wallaby cells to our cell library. It is possible that the
optimisation of media, passaging and culture conditions would improve the
proliferative capacity of these cells. We are currently focusing our resources
in other areas, however if our priorities change in future, frozen WALLE
isolate may be thawed, and culture optimisations performed.


