

Please add any notes or useful info you find here. It does not have to
immediately seem relevant, but anything that helps or that we should keep in
mind, useful resources for hardware or information, contractors that can help
us build things etc.

\--> For every new comment, please insert a new Rich Text section

  




Prototype names:

  1. Flo-rider
  2. Un-sink-able
  3. Titanic II (because the previous one had a hole)



  1. "Factors" may include media components
  2. Protein yield measurement is dependent on introduction of suitable (non-microscopy) analytical techniques to specifically assess cellular protein content.
  3. Protein content of a cell is ~ 20%? https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21473/
  4. For mature muscle, this may increase to 60%: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK218163/ 

  




shelves and trays for holding samples:

  1. https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/product/sigma/p7481?lang=en&region=AU&cm_sp=Insite-_-caContent_prodMerch_gruCrossEntropy-_-prodMerch10-5
  2. https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/product/sigma/baf189830000?lang=en&region=AU&cm_sp=Insite-_-caContent_prodMerch_gruCrossEntropy-_-prodMerch10-3
  3. https://shop.pall.com/us/en/biotech/cell-culture/bioreactors/zidhw7uq21i

## Multiplate bioreactor for adherent cell culture

  * Closed and single-use to reduce risk of contamination
  * 2D multiplate design allows easy scale up from traditional multitray systems
  * Real-time control and monitoring ensures reproducibility and traceability
  * Single-use closed bioreactor, from vessel to sensors, reduces risk of contamination
  * Multiple sizes available to match the scale required
  * Compatible with Pall's mPath™ benchtop bioreactor control tower

The Xpansion multiplate bioreactor system is a closed, single-use system that
has been specifically designed for the scale-up of shear-sensitive, adherent
mammalian cells under controlled conditions. It is suitable for multiple
applications but is especially well suited for seed train operations for the
iCELLis® bioreactor as well as for adherent stem cell culture..

The Xpansion bioreactor system was developed for efficient scale-up of
traditional 2D cell cultures. The multiplate structure  
is comprised of a large cell growth surface area (up to 122,400 cm2), while
the compact design enables the elimination of the gas  
phase between the plates. This gas phase is replaced by an automatically
controlled aeration system via disposable pH and  
dissolved oxygen (DO) sensors. Temperature monitoring and agitation control
are also included.

The Xpansion bioreactor system provides a similar microenvironment to a
multitray stack but in a much more compact space and with fully automated
environmental control. The 80 cm high Xpansion 200 bioreactor provides the
same cell growth area as a 4 m high stack of multitray vessels.

  

The 80 cm high Xpansion 200 bioreactor provides the same cell growth area as a
20 multitray vessels  
  

## System Overview

### Single-Use Bioreactor with Stacked Multiplate Design

Standard Cell Environment Preservation

Similar to multitray stacks, cells adhere and grow on hydrophilized
polystyrene plates and are harvested using a cell dissociation reagent.

Because of its design, the system maintains the same environment as T-flasks
or multitray stacks, and processes designed on these systems are easily
adapted to the Xpansion system.

Cell Culture Parameters (pH, DO) Control and Temperature Monitoring

The Xpansion bioreactor head plate includes ports for single-use, optical,
non-invasive measurement of pH and DO. Depending on the DO and pH measurement,
gas regulation is activated via the controller according to users'
requirements.

Temperature is measured for monitoring via a PT100 reusable sensor installed
in a thermowell of the bioreactor. Heating is provided by placing the
consumable in an incubator or warm room.

Aeration System

Gas aeration occurs depending on user-specified pH and DO set-points measured
using the pH and DO sensors. Gas from the controller enters the bioreactor and
passes through thin silicone tubing placed in the central column formed by
stacking the plates where it diffuses into the surrounding medium. The gas
inlet and outlet include pre-installed hydrophobic aeration filters.

The Xpansion bioreactor aeration system

Homogenization by Medium Circulation

Each plate contains 16 radial channels allowing medium to flow through and up
the plates. The rotation of the impeller pushes the liquid upward, first
vertically through the first plate channel, then horizontally over the plate,
then up again to the second plate, etc.

Circulation of culture medium throughout the Xpansion bioreactor plates




can we use the T-flask lids (and sawed-off necks) to build our own gas
equilibration membrane? Prob easier to just have a tubing connector with a
membrane filter hooked up to it for now. Then we can later repurpose the
tubing connector for perfusion (with gas-equilibrated media)

  




Connectors

https://www.pacificlab.com.au/shop/connectors-1

https://www.mcmaster.com/

https://www.thomassci.com/Molecular-Diagnostics/Liquid-
Handling/Reservoirs/_/Reagent-Reservoirs15?q=Reservoirs%20Automation

https://ecatalog.corning.com/life-
sciences/b2b/EUOther/en/Genomics-%26-Molecular-Biology/Automation-
Consumables/Automation-Reservoirs/Axygen%C2%AE-Reagent-Reservoirs/p/RES-
SW96-HP

https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/1200-1300#/1200-1300

Sieves and vessels

https://www.labfriend.com.au/test-sieves-200-x-50mm-1-to-125mm-5454

https://shop.sciencefirst.com/fieldmaster/3024-sieve-set-20cm-diameter-with-
lid-catchpan.html

https://www.mydeal.com.au/gardenhome-metal-stainlesssteel-meaty-garden-riddle-
soil-sieve-mesh-6mm-12mm-gb-3472773?gclid=CjwKCAjw6qqDBhB-
EiwACBs6x7D0OBnjOWjKW9B6e_Jopme1pDhtK8fkdF1-GsyRExOUAFrntnhlchoCTFcQAvD_BwE

https://www.thomassci.com/Laboratory-Supplies/Sieves/_/3-Diameter-ASTM-
Stainless-Steel-Round-Test-Sieves?q=Sieve%20400

https://www.pirtek.com.au/products  
https://www.heyhey.com.au/products/soga-30l-stainless-steel-insulated-stock-
pot-dispenser-hot-cold-beverage-container-with-
tap?variant=12005036261412&currency=AUD&utm_medium=product_sync&utm_source=google&utm_content=sag_organic&utm_campaign=sag_organic&gclid=CjwKCAjwjbCDBhAwEiwAiudByz6ZtQOU50jihe14MTeGF44laCrT7T7ktRCkile9bQx3AZVNXhpzvxoCPo0QAvD_BwE

https://www.amazon.com.au/Prettyia-Portable-Stainless-Pallete-
Painting/dp/B07MQ5NWZR/ref=asc_df_B07MQ5NWZR/?tag=googleshopdsk-22&linkCode=df0&hvadid=341774442466&hvpos=&hvnetw=g&hvrand=2189502668142773585&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=1000286&hvtargid=pla-758031076460&psc=1




Alliance Tooling Company - CNC Tooling Manufacturing - Caringbah NSW

https://www.dnb.com/business-directory/company-
profiles.alliance_tooling_company_pty_limited.5a53dc8c732d97cf69182d6508459cd0.html

Contact craig@alliancetooling.com.au

Used previously for manufacturing pneumatic ventilator parts. Well priced.




MAKER SPACE & CO

12 Gerald St Marrickville - 13 min drive from Vow.  


Membership covers access to wood and metal shop. $50 induction.

Membership $280 a month or 5 day pass $250 which can be spread out over 3
months.



Digital fabrication not included in membership.

Laser cutter (CO2 laser acrylic and thin wood) $25 per hour. $50 induction.  
 CNC router $250 induction. $50 per hour.  
  
 Up to 4 (5 max) people per induction.



https://www.makerspace.org.au/contact




Mosa Meats patent for maturation bioreactor:

https://www.robertyaman.com/blog/patent-analysis-mosa-meat-and-scalable-
differentiation

Patent Analysis: Mosa Meat and Scalable Differentiation

Scalable Differentiation

It is well known that scalability is one of the major challenges for cell-
based meat. This can be further broken down into:

  1. Scalable proliferation: Cells from livestock animals are generally much more difficult to culture than bacterial or fungal cells. In order to proliferate, animal cells tend to require specific nutrient compositions and growth factors, as well as an environment with certain pH levels, temperature, and oxygen content. Additionally, animal cells tend to require a surface to grow on, making it challenging to use the stirred-tank bioreactors traditionally used in other industries.

  2. Scalable differentiation: Once there are enough cells, a further challenge is turning those cells into meat. A piece of meat involves many muscle fibers running in the same direction. These fibers are formed when multiple muscle precursor cells fuse together. One kind of solution to the scalable differentiation problem involves letting the fibers form on structure that emulates the role of bone or cartilage. However, this leads to the further challenges of seeding the cells homogeneously throughout the structure, and later harvesting the fibers which tend to want to stay on the structure.

While the technology in this patent application doesn't attempt to solve the
first problem, it does present a possible solution to scalable differentiation
that mitigates the challenge of harvesting.

## Cell Migration

  

I found the mechanics behind this technology somewhat confusing, so I'll start
with an analogy. Imagine putting a small rubber band around the tip of your
finger--the squeezing tension in the rubber band might cause it to roll from a
thicker part of your finger to a thinner part of your finger. Given enough
tension, it might roll off your finger completely.

The culture vessel utilizes a similar phenomenon-the rubber band is like the
cells and your finger like the vessel itself.

During differentiation, muscle fibers link to form muscle tissue. These links
create tension that pulls the muscle fibers together. The insight behind this
new culture vessel design is that this tension can move the cell mass to a
part of the culture vessel where it is easier to harvest the cells. The muscle
fibers are formed at the base of a partial cone (the cone is referred to here
as the inner wall, colored in green). Once the cells differentiate, the
tension between the fibers moves the cells up the cone into a harvesting area
(colored in purple), just like the rubber band moved to a thinner part of your
finger.

## The Culture Vessel

The main component of the culture vessel is a circular trough where the cells
are initially deposited. The cells are enclosed by a straight outer wall, and
a slanted inner wall, which prevents the initial liquid from spilling. As the
cells differentiate, tension forms between the cells and fibers. Since the
mass of cells is encircling the inner wall of the trough, the tension moves
the cells up the inner wall to the harvesting area

A cross section of a single culture vessel. The complete vessel can be
visualized by rotating the cross section about the dotted line. The cells
begin in the trough, then migrate up the inner wall as they differentiate,
eventually reaching the harvesting area.

Figure 6 from the patent application, showing the inner pole around which the
troughs sit. Each divot in the pole is a harvesting area. The groove marked by
"152" is for sliding a blade during harvesting.

The harvesting area is detachable from the rest of the vessel to make it
easier to harvest the cells. There is a groove running from top to bottom of
the harvesting area where the circular fiber can be sliced. Since the rings of
tissue are held in place only by their grip, cutting them causes them to fall
off easily.

The system is scaled by increasing the number of culture vessels. Multiple
culture vessels can be stacked around a single inner pole, and many of these
stacks can be placed side-by-side.

It's important to note that each vessel contains a very small number of cells
[1]. If the troughs were too big, media would not be able to reach the insides
of the cell mass, causing those cells to die. Therefore, in any production
system at scale, there would likely be an extremely large number of these
culture vessel stacks.

## The Process

To create meat using these vessels, Mosa Meat first deposits a cell mixture
into the troughs. They can do this in a number of different ways. For example,
they can slide tubes in between the stacks of culture vessels, and deposit the
mixture over the outer walls. Alternatively, the inner pole itself can have
holes through which they deposit the mixture. This has the added benefit of
making it easier to provide media to the inner layer of cells later in the
process.

The initial cell mixture is made up of proliferated cells, plus a hydrogel
[2]. Initially, the hydrogel is not crosslinked, which allows the mixture to
be poured into the trough. After the mixture is in place, the hydrogel is
crosslinked. Depending on which hydrogel is used, crosslinking can be achieved
though heat, UV radiation, or some other method. The crosslinked chain then
forms a scaffold in which cells can grow.

A hydrogel is used as the scaffolding for a number of reasons. Firstly, it
makes it easier to pour the initial mixture into the troughs, since the
scaffolding can be structured later in the process via crosslinking. Secondly,
the scaffolding that the hydrogel forms is relatively soft, allowing the cells
to move freely to restructure themselves. As the cells differentiate, they
pull closer together, pushing out excess water. In a more rigid scaffolding
structure, cells may be less able to migrate to the harvesting area.

After the hydrogel is crosslinked, Mosa Meat submerges the entire culture
vessel in differentiation media, causing media to flow into each of the
troughs. The differentiation media causes the cells to form fibers and begin
their migration.

After the cells have migrated to the harvesting area, Mosa Meat removes the
inner tube along with all of the differentiated cells. While the troughs are
re-used for the next batch, Mosa Meat moves the inner tube to a further vessel
where the muscle tissue can mature.

When the muscle tissue is ready, Mosa Meat finally harvests the tissue by
slicing along the groove on the inner poles. This severs the fibers covering
the groove and causes the muscle to fall off.

Figures 14-16 from the patent application, illustrating the differentiation
process after the stack of culture vessels has been submerged in
differentiation media. The cells start out in the troughs, migrate up the
inner wall, and end up in the harvesting area.

Mosa Meat doesn't provide a model of how cost effective this system could be.
However, if a sufficient number of cells can be harvested per vessel, it may
be a feasible solution to the problem of scalable differentiation.

* * *

Thank to Alene Anello for feedback on drafts of this post, and Jonathan
Breemhaar for providing additional information on the mechanics behind the
patent application.

## Footnotes

[1] The patent application doesn't specify particular dimensions, but it gives
some possible ranges. The length of the center pole can be between 20 and
1,000 millimeters, the diameter of the pole can be between 2 and 10
millimeters, the length of the inner harvesting area can be around 800
microns, the troughs can be vertically spaced 1 to 5 millimeters apart, and
the troughs themselves can contain between 40 and 1,000 microliters of liquid.

Assuming the inner pole is 1,000 millimeters long and the troughs are 10
millimeters tall spaced 5 millimeters apart, up to 66 troughs could be
contained on a single inner pole.

[2] A hydrogel is a substance somewhere in between a solid and a liquid. It
involves a chain of hydrophilic molecules, linked together through some
chemical bond (called "crosslinking"). Because these polymers are made up of
hydrophilic molecules, they attract water (or in this case, media), and keep
it in a semi-solid structure.

  




https://benchtopbioreactors.com/customize




OSPIN - a german contractor specialising in building bioreactors, including
for cultured meat

https://ospin.de/bioreactorplatform/#Bioprocessing-Modules

  


