Key Result(s)
  
  
This CHOMP07 fibroblast expansion was maintained in culture for 26 days and
underwent 3 passages. The average doubling time over the course of the
expansion was 2.68 days  A WCB of 950M cells was banked in the form of 70 x
10M vials and 50x 5M vials.


Discussion of Results


The generation of this WCB demonstrates that CHOMP07 fibroblasts can be
expanded to sufficient numbers to meet the current demands of both the
Production and Science teams. The doubling times of these cells did not slow
significantly during the expansion, indicating that the cells have not yet
reached their proliferative capacity.


Limitations


Production and Science teams are currently using F_COMP09 cells for the
majority of their work, rather than the F_COMP07. See lab book for CHOMP09 WCB
generation here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NzY2Ni4xfDEwNjMxNy81ODk3LTQ4ODgwL1RyZWVOb2RlLzEyMzAwNDc1OTN8MTk0NjAuMQ==  
  
Note that the choice to work with the F_COMP09 line rather than F_COMP07 was
made arbitrarily as we have not yet observed a significant difference in cell
morphology or proliferative capacities between the 2 cell lines. For the
purpose of consistency and reproducibility however, F_COMP09 will continue to
be used until it it's MCBs/WCBs are exhausted. As we currently do not have a
good understanding of the proliferative limits of these cells, it is unclear
how long these stocks will last.  
  
A longevity study to assess these limits will be conducted for both CHOMP07
and CHOMP09. See lab book here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NjY4NC42fDEwNjMxNy81MTQyLTQyMzM4L1RyZWVOb2RlLzI0Mjg1NzI2MDl8MTY5NjguNg==


Conclusion(s)


A WCB of 950M F_CHOMP07 cells was banked.


Future Direction(s)


The  F_CHOMP07 WCB is now available for use by Production and Science teams.
As both teams have already commenced working with F_CHOMP09 however, it is
likely they will continue to do so until these stocks are exhausted. If this
F_CHOMP07 WCB is put into use in future, additional WCBs may need to be
generated upon its exhaustion.


