Key Result(s)
  
  
This CHOMP09 fibroblast expansion was maintained in culture for 27 days and
underwent 4 passages. The average doubling time over the course of the
expansion was 2.89 days  A WCB of 2.2 billion cells was banked in the form of
130 x 15M vials and 25 x 10M vials.  


Limitations


Once this current F_CHOMP09 WCB has been exhausted, additional WCBs will be
required. Given the current rate of F_CHOMP09 consumption by both the Science
and Production teams, it is likely that our F_CHOMP09 MCB stocks will
eventually be depleted and we will not be able to produce any further
F_CHOMP09 WCBs. In this instance however, we have the option to move to
F_CHOMP07, for which we have additional MCB/WCB stocks.


Discussion of Results


While we were able to generate a large WCB of 2.2 billion F_CHOMP09 cells
during this expansion, it is likely that these cells will soon be exhausted
and additional F_CHOMP WCBs will be required. As our F_CHOMP09 MCB stocks are
finite, an alternative source may be required in future.  
  
The F_CHOMP09 cell line was originally derived from cells isolated following
Vows standard collagenase + dispase digestion protocol. The F_CHOMP09 cell
line on the other hand, was derived from cells isolated following a trypsin
digestion protocol. See lab book here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NDE4Ny4zfDEwNjMxNy8zMjIxLTI0NzI0L1RyZWVOb2RlLzc4ODA3OTIzNXwxMDYyOS4z

The decision to work with the F_COMP09 line rather than F_COMP07 was initially
made arbitrarily as we have not seen a significant difference in cell
morphology or proliferative capacities between the 2 cell lines. For the
purpose of consistency and reproducibility however, F_COMP09 has been
exclusively used by the Science and Production teams to date.  In the event of
F_COMP09 exhaustion however, F_CHOMP07 offers a respectable alternative.


Conclusion(s)


A WCB of 2.2 billion F_CHOMP09 cells was banked.


Future Direction(s)


The  F_CHOMP09 WCB will be used for production runs and by the science team.
When this WCB has been exhausted, additional MCB to WCB expansions may be
required. Given both Production and Science teams have been using enormous
numbers of F_CHOMP09 cells recently, it may be necessary to move to F_CHOMP07
in future.


