

Encapsulation Background Research

  

What are we trying to do? Brief recap of overview and roadmap page / or just
link it at the beginning

(For project specific aims, please refer to 'x'...)

VP note: might be a good idea to briefly outline here "cells in encapsulation
- adherent but in suspension culture format, scale for first product" rather
than just referring to the roadmap link

  * Cells prefer to stick to things as they grow / proliferate (they also receive lots of helpful mechanical cues which directs this growth)
  * But to be able to mass produce cells, we need to be able to grow them in a suspension format (using volume rather than area)
  * Another project is already focusing on adapting single cells to suspension - link to Project Frankenstien
  * Our project is taking an intermediate approach where cells are encapsulated in an edible scaffold that is 

  

Why are encapsulation techniques important for Vow / the cultured meat
industry?

VP note: I think the info here is great for general info about encapsulation
for texture and tissue-like growth but less important for info as a kind of
'biological microcarrier'. Maybe chunk this into 2 sections: (1) start with
the bioreactor culture scale premise here (dont grow in suspension, but are
adherent, encapsulated in functionalised matrix will allow adherence,
expansion, protection from shear, and will enable growth in 'suspension
format') and then (2) why its useful in general to keep this research going
without the bioreactor scale aspect (for 'tissue-like' growth!)

'The likely requirement for biomaterial-based scaffolds to facilitate scalable
cell expansion and cell differentiation (see Sections 4.1, 4.2) introduces
both challenges and opportunities in designing the nutritional composition of
cultured meat. One technical challenge is the need to support high cell
densities to match those in native tissue (108 - 109 cells/mL) [59]. However,
most research into engineering muscle tissue has been performed at relatively
low cell densities (107 cells/mL) [58], [60], [61], [62], [63], and the need
for high encapsulated cell densities may require scaffold re-formulation for
ensuring fabrication feasibility and cellular microenvironmental optimization.
Alternative approaches to maximize protein content in cultured meat prototypes
include the use of edible, proteinaceous scaffolds, or biodegradable scaffolds
that are replaced by cells and their secreted ECM proteins during culture
[6].' (Ng, 2021)

'MCs can also be composed of edible materials and be embedded in the final
product. As opposed to the previous cases where MCs are considered as a food
contact material, in this scenario they should comply with regulations for use
as a food ingredient or additive. Indeed, besides supporting cell growth, an
edible MC would also be part of the final product and might affect the sensory
attributes of the meat product, such as taste, color or texture.' (Bodiou,
2020)

What materials and methods have been trialled in the literature? How effective
have these approaches been?

VP note: again, this section refers a lot to recreation of tissue-like
structure. Is important but would be good to address the purpose of the
micromass for scale premise here. E.g. referring to people using alginate
microbeads for delivery of cell therapies, work in the 90s and early 2000s
looking at micromass aggregates in bioreactor culture (people moved away from
this because it is not consistent as single cell, and applications are for
cell therapy and cell products rather than large scale production of biomass).
You can also include discussion here of what's been trialled for 'tissue'
recreation but maybe re-frame in the micromass bioreactor context.

'Due to the loss of native tissue structure, restructured and unstructured
meat products often require the addition of biopolymers that provide either
thickening or gelling functions to enhance product formability and retain
structural integrity under storage and cooking conditions. Typical examples of
gelling biopolymers include hydrocolloids (e.g. alginate, Îº-carrageenan,
gellan gum, agar), pre-swollen starches and proteins (e.g. gelatine, soy or
pea isolates, and whey) (Table 1) [8], [11], [52], the majority of which form
physically crosslinked hydrogels in a thermo-responsive manner, with the key
exception of alginate which forms an ionically cross-linked, cold-set gel. The
requirement for high temperatures to solubilize gelling hydrocolloids or
denature gelling proteins limits the use of most physical crosslinking methods
to the production of cooked meat products. However, the development of
enzymatic methods using microbial transglutaminase and recombinant
fibrinogen/thrombin allows the use of gelling proteins for uncooked meat
products by supporting the formation of covalently crosslinked proteins gels
at low temperatures [70].' (Ng, 2021)

  

'Fibrin gel is able to function as both twodimensional and three-dimensional
cell culture scaffold [43]. As shown in Figure 3(a), the traditional two-
dimensional scaffold is fabricated before cell seeding. After the gelation of
fibrin gel, isolated cells are seeded into the surface of fibrin gel [44].
Although the conventional two-dimensional scaffold provides an understanding
as to how cells interact with the fibrin gel surface, it cannot mimic the
natural physiological environment of cells in vivo. Three-dimensional
scaffolds become popular because of their ability to be a model of tissue
physiology and provide a better understanding on the interaction of cell and
matrix, as well as how the cell-matrix interaction affects cell function.
Moreover, it is essential that such a system has a potential to be developed
to engineer functional tissue. Fibrin gels with a final fibrinogen
concentration higher than 25 mg/mL, 20 mM Ca2+, and pH between 6.8 and 9 have
a broad linear viscoelastic region.They also present the ability to withstand
104 Pa mechanical load and a long-term stability, which is desirable for
tissue engineering application [33]. The degradation rate of fibrin gel can be
regulated with aprotinin and tranexamic acid (trans-4-aminomethyl-
cyclohexane-1- carboxylic acid; tAMCA) to precisely match tissue regeneration
[34]. Fibrin can be fabricated into various types of tissue engineering
scaffolds such as micro/nanoparticles [35, 36], micro/nanofibers [37, 38],
microtubes [39], and hydrogels [40, 41].' (Li, 2015)

  

'Edible polymers that can be used as substrates for cell expansion are
classified into four categories: polysaccharides (e.g., starch, alginate,
carrageenan, chitosan, cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose, pectin),
polypeptides (e.g., collagen, gelatin, gluten), lipids (e.g., paraffin,
shellac), and composites/synthetics (e.g., PGA, PEG) (175). They have been
widely used in the food industry as stabilizers, thickeners, coatings and
emulsifiers. Cellulose, chitosan and alginate could be good candidates for
large-scale expansion of SCs, as they are the most abundant natural polymers
and are known for their biocompatibility and biodegradability (176, 177).
However, in order to enhance attachment of SCs, incorporation of RGD-
containing proteins is required (178), which have not yet received approval
for use in food. One patent describing an edible and animal-free MC for
engineered meat, proposes the use of pectin coupled with cardosin A, an RGD-
containing polypeptide (179). Thus, the use of polypeptides as collagen or
gelatin could be more suitable as the tripeptide motif is already naturally
present. Using lipid-based MCs could also be an interesting way to bring fatty
flavors to the product.' (Bodiou, 2020)

  

Ansari et al., demonstrated that an RGD coupled alginate hydrogel
encapsulation system supported the viability of gingival mesenchymal stem
cells (GMSCs) and their myogenic differentiation capacity. In terms of
differentiation, it was found that alginate hydrogels with an elasticity
between 10 and 16 kPa, in comparison to softer (<5kPa) or stiffer (>20kPa)
hydrogels, demonstrated the highest capacity for myogenic differentiation as
evidenced by an upregulation of myogenic genes, including myogenin, MyoD, and
Myf5 GMSCs. With a higher expression than that of encapsulated human bone
marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hBMMSCs), which were stated as the gold
standard of MSC therapy.

Thus, the elasticity of the alginate hydrogel in the experiments by Ansari et
al., was shown to control the myogenic fate of the encapsulated cells.
Subsequently, when we test alginate with our MuSCs at Vow, we should consider
a range of alginate moduli, by adjusting factors such as cross-linker
concentration, cross-linking time and/or polymer concentration, as this will
likely influence the behaviour of our cells, as well as their capability for
myogenesis.

Moreover, Ansari et al., showed that their alginate hydrogels possess a porous
microstructure, which is an attribute that enables the diffusion of oxygen,
nutrients and growth factors to the encapsulated cells. Thus, it was stated
that alginate with an optimised matrix elasticity of 10-16 kPa presents a
highly suitable scaffold biomaterial for muscle tissue engineering.

  

'Edelman et al. [43] proposed porous beads made of edible collagen as a
substrate while as van Eelen et al. [29] proposed a collagen meshwork
described as a "colla- gen sponge" of bovine origin. The tribeculate structure
of the sponge allows for increased surface area and diffusion but may impede
harvesting of the tissue culture. Other possible scaffold forms include large
elastic sheets or an array of long, thin filaments. Cytodex-3 microcarrier
beads have been used as scaffolds in rotary bioreactors, but these beads have
no stretching potential. One elegant approach to mechanically stretch
myoblasts would be to use edible, stimuli-sensitive porous microspheres made
from cellulose, alginate, chitosan, or collagen [43], which undergo, at least,
a 10% change in surface area following small changes in temperature or pH.
Once myoblasts attach to the spheres, they could be stretched periodically
provided such variation in the pH or temperature would not negatively affect
cell proliferation, adhesion, and growth.' (Bhat, 2020)

  

'Fast-degradable alginate-fibrin microbeads with hUCMSC encapsulation were
developed that could start to degrade and release the cells at 4 d. The
released hUCMSCs had excellent proliferation, osteodifferentiation, and bone
mineral synthesis. The alginate-fibrin microbeads are promising to deliver
stem cells inside injectable scaffolds to promote tissue regeneration.' (Zhou
and Xu, 2011)

  

List some promising scaffold candidates and how we've gone about utilising
them in the current project

VP note: maybe could chunk this into a section about each material, what it
is, and why we've chosen it (fibrin/collagen I/Matrigel)

Research from Q4

Reiterating the most salient points:

The naturally occurring polysaccharide alginate has been widely used in
biomedical applications because of its non-antigenicity, good
biocompatibility, and reasonable biodegradability. An additional attribute of
alginate, is that in the presence of divalent cations (Ca2+), it can be
ionically cross-linked in a manner which is mild, cell compatible, easy to
apply and cost-effective.

Furthermore, owing to the processability of alginate, alginate scaffolds can
be readily processed into various morphologies including microspheres, 3D
sponges, nanofibers, and microscale cell-laden struts. Consequently, alginate-
based materials have already been applied in numerous tissue-engineering
applications.

An additional benefit of alginate, for the purposes of clean meat engineering,
is the biocompatibility and edibility of this material type. Wherein, sodium
alginate derived from brown algae or seaweed such as kelp is already an
accepted food product, present as an emulsifier in products such as ice cream,
salad dressing, fruit juice, and yoghurt. In addition, the commonly employed
alginate cross-linker 'calcium chloride' is used as an additive in the food
industry; as a way of enhancing the salty taste of food products such as
pickles without increasing their sodium content.

Thus, due to its known biocompatibility and processability, alginate hydrogels
represent a promising material candidate for use in cellular agriculture.

  

Expected limitations and things to try in the future

VP note: my thoughts are generating enough collagen
I/matrigel/thrombin/fibrinogen in a sustainable way (ACF) at scale, in house
(too $$ to purchase in at large quantities required for scale). Maybe
hybridomas or nice easy one would be to use CHOMP secreted/extracellular
biomass from James' TCA stuff

  

References

Zhou and Xu, 2011

Ma, 2013

Li et al., 2015

Deepthi and Jayakumar, 2018

Bhat, 2020

Bodiou, 2020

Seah, 2021

Ng, 2021


