

## Methods:

Culture 10101 was removed from the incubator and imaged using the zaber using
the same settings used on the 18th of Jan (see previous lab book entry).

Wells imaged = A5, C4, D2 and D6.

Decided to see if transfection efficiency could be determined by measuring GFP
flourescent cells / Hoechst nuclear stain.

After wells were imaged, Supernatant from each well was aspirated from the
cells at room temperature and cells were washed with 1mL of dPBS gently.

dPBS was then immediately aspirated and discarded and replaced with 500uL of
dPBS (mix7589).

Added 15uL of Hoechst ready flow reagent 33342 (s3854) to each well and the
plate was gently rocked to mix.

The plate was then left the plate at room temperature wrapped in foil for 6
minutes: Time stamp (Hoescht stain): 10:04 am -10:11 am

The plate was then unwrapped and placed in the zaber to observe Hoechst
flourescence under UV light.

After inspection under UV, the plate was removed from the Zaber and wells of
interest were imaged once in the centre using the Primovert microscope, Phase
channel, 4x objective.

## Observations:

Wells imaged prior to washing appeared to have CHOMP cells still adhered. The
total number of GFP positive cells appeared highest in well C4 based on a
qualitative assessment. Clumping of cells and detatchment of cells from he
base of the well was observed in wells A5, D2 and D6.

After Hoechst staining the cells in each of the wells of interest showed high
levels of detachment from the well base. It was decided that imaging on the
zaber after Hoechst stain to determine transfection efficiency would be
difficult due to this high level of detachment. The Hoechst stain was visible
in all cells still.

We suspect that the cells did not react well to a prolonged time (~30 minutes)
at room temperature and were weakly adhered onto the well base. Subsequent
washing of the cells was most likely the cause for cell detachment witnessed
during the Hoechst staining procedure.  
  
If this process were to be repeated, supernatant should be replaced with fresh
growth media before addition of Hoechst. Hoechst incubation should then occur
in the incubator at 30 degress, 5% CO2 to limit cell detachment possibly
resulting from prolonged exposure to room temperatures.


