

Completed by: Bonnie Tangey




Overreaching Project Objective  
The development of suspension adapted cell lines at Vow would allow for
scalable production of cell mass far beyond that which is achievable via
adherent culture alone. In this project, we will isolation primary cells from
avian embryonic tissue with a view to suspension adaption. It is hoped that
embryonic tissue will be more amenable to suspension adaption than cells
derived from highly adherent adult tissue. Several avian embryonic fibroblast
cell lines have already been adapted by other groups, providing a precedent
for this approach. Details on these lines are outlined here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/ODEzOS4zfDEwNjMxNy82MjYxLTUxODIxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzIzMjM5OTQwNDV8MjA2NjEuMw==

Previous success with quail embryonic cell lines at Vow

We have had recent success in isolating avian embryonic cells from 9 Day quail
embryos. Early results indicate that isolate cultured from these embryos is
readily adapted to serum free culture, and that embryonic cells may be more
amenable to suspension adaption than cells derived from adult tissue. See lab
book here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/ODEzOC4wfDEwNjMxNy82MjYwLTUxNzczL1RyZWVOb2RlLzEwODQyMTcwMjV8MjA2NTguMA==.

Crocodile is currently Vows preferred species for our 1st product launch. We
already have 2 Salt water crocodile cell lines at Vow however we have had
limited success adapting these cells to serum free and/or suspension culture.
See cell line lab book here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NDE4Ny4zfDEwNjMxNy8zMjIxLTI0NzI0L1RyZWVOb2RlLzc4ODA3OTIzNXwxMDYyOS4z

Given our initial success with avian embryos, similar techniques will now be
applied to crocodile embryos. It is hoped that embryo derived crocodile cells
may show similar characteristics to our avian lines, with a greater tolerance
to reduced serum medias, and better prospects for adaption to suspension
culture.

  




Animal Source

15 'dead in shell' Salt Water Crocodile limbs were provided by John Koorana
Crocodile Farm, 65 Savages Rd, Coowonga QLD 4702. Embryos were confirmed to be
deceased prior to their transport to Vow. Death is confirmed via candling the
eggs at regular intervals to identify when embryonic development has ceased.
In the case of crocodile eggs, when embryonic banding ceases to progress over
time, the embryo is deceased. As the eggs are only candled a few times
throughout their incubation (in order to reduce disturbance), the exact date
death is unknown.  The eggs provided to us by John were candled at 30 days
incubation and may have died any time in the previous 3 weeks. Note that
incubation time to hatching of Salt Water Crocodiles is approximately 80 days.  




Diagram showing the normal progression of banding as the embryo develops.
Taken from https://www.fao.org/3/t0226e/t0226e06.htm

  




The following culture medias will be trialled for the embryo derived crocodile
cells.

Adherent medias

  1. OptiPRO + 4mM Glutamax - so far successful with our quail embryo derived cells.
  2. DMEM/F12 + 10% KSR- so far successful with our quail embryo derived cells. 
  3. DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS - Media used to culture our adult crocodile cell lines (CHOMP07 and CHOMP09)
  4. DMEM/F12 + 5% FBS- Reduced serum media. 

Suspension Medias  
See background section for more information on these medias here: https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/ODEzOS4zfDEwNjMxNy82MjYxLTUxODIxL1RyZWVOb2RlLzIzMjM5OTQwNDV8MjA2NjEuMw==

  1. Freestyle 293 medium supplemented with Yeast Extract (1g/l), L-Ornithine monohydrochloride (20mg/l), Putrescine (20mg/l), IGF-1 (50ug/l), EGF (10ug/l) and ACA (1:100)
  2. CDM4Avian medium supplemented with 2.5 mM Glutamax
  3. OptiPRO SFM + 0.2% Pluronic F-68 + \+ 4mM Glutamax
  4. Hycell CHO + 4mM Glutamax - Commercial suspension cell media designed for CHO cells that we already have in house. 
  5. CDM4 HEK293 + 4mM Glutamax-  Commercial suspension cell media designed for HEK cells that we already have in house.   


