

## Completed by: Bonnie Tangey


Aim/Purpose


  1. To establish planar cultures of embryo derived crocodile cells.  
  2. To adapt crocodile embryo derived cells to growth in serum free media in planar culture
  3. To adapt crocodile embryo derived cells to growth in suspension culture. 


Hypothesis


1\. Cells which have been derived from 'dead in shell' crocodile embryos and
placed immediately into suspension culture will begin to proliferate within 21
days, in 1 or more of the following medias

  1. Freestyle 293 medium supplemented with Yeast Extract, L-Ornithine monohydrochloride, Putrescine, IGF-1, EGF and ACA.
  2. CDM4Avian medium supplemented with 2.5 mM GlutaMAX 
  3. OptiPRO SFM + 0.2% Pluronic F-68 + \+ 4mM GlutaMAX 
  4. Hycell CHO + 4mM Glutamax 
  5. CDM4 HEK293 + 4mM Glutamax

2\. Following a direct or gradual adaption process, cells derived from 11 day
mongrel chicken and Cayuga duck embryos will be adapted to growth in one or
more of the following medias, within 7 passages.

  1. DMEM/ F12 + 20% FBS
  2. DMEM/ F12 + 5% FBS
  3. DMEM + 10% KSR
  4. OpiPRO SFM + 4mM GlutaMAX 


Technical Gap


While still in the early stages, our attempts to adapt quail embryo derived
cells to planar serum free culture, as well as suspension culture are showing
promise. These results however may not be directly transferrable crocodile
embryonic cells.  
  
As the 'dead in shell' eggs may have died anywhere up to 3 weeks prior to
arriving at Vow, the cells may not be in peak health, or even viable.


Method/Procedure


Day 0 (11/02/2022)  
Single cell homogenate prepared from 'dead in shell' embryos following the
protocol outlined by James Henstock and cells seeded into either planar or
suspension culture as follows.  
  
SUSPENSION  
D0: E-125 flasks will be seeded with embryonic cell isolate in 1 of 5 medias.
Flasks will then be incubated at 30C and 5% CO2 on a shaking plate at 120RPM.

  1. Freestyle 293 medium supplemented with:  
 Yeast Extract: 10ml YE stock (100g/ml) per litre of medium  
 L-Ornithine monohydrochloride: 20mg/l; add 1ml stock (20mg/ml) per litre of
medium  
 Putrescine dihydrochloride: 20mg/ml; add 1ml stock (20mg/mg) per litre of
medium  
 IGF-1 LONG R3; 50ug/l; add 50ul stock (1mg/ml) per litre of medium  
 EGF; 10ug/l; add 10ul stock (1mg/ml) per litre of medium  
 Anti-Clumping agent (ACA) 1:100; add 10ml stock per litre of medium

  2. CDM4Avian medium supplemented with 2.5 mM GlutaMAX 
  3. OptiPRO SFM + 0.2% Pluronic F-68 + 4mM GlutaMAX 
  4. Hycell CHO + 4mM Glutamax - Commercial suspension cell media designed for CHO cells that we already have in house. 
  5. CDM4 HEK293 + 4mM Glutamax-  Commercial suspension cell media designed for HEK cells that we already have in house. 

Ongoing: Suspension cultures will have a 50%-75% media change and cell count
every 3-4 days following Vows establish protocols for suspension culture
monitoring.

ADHERENT  
D0: A portion of the cell homogenate will be seeded into T25 flasks in each of
the following medias

  1. OptiPRO + 4mM Glutamax
  2. DMEM/F12 + 10% KSR
  3. DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS 
  4. DMEM/F12 + 5% FBS

Ongoing: All cultures will have a 50% media change every 48-72hrs after
initial cell attachment, and be passaged when approx. 80% confluent and
reseeded at 7500/cm. Any successfully adapted cultures will be expanded and
placed into suspension adaption experiments. If we are able to establish
cultures in serum containing media, but direct adaption to serum free media is
not successful, then a gradual adaption to reduced or serum free media will be
attempted.


