

Background Section

  

There is evidence to indicate that fibroblasts have previously been grown
successfully in the context of serum-free media [1], which contains 1 ng/mL of
FGFb and 5 ug/mL of insulin as supplements. An additional commercial serum-
free media produced for fibroblasts claims to be able to support numbers of
fibroblast doublings that are on par with serum-containing media. In addition
to a basal media, this fibroblast serum-free media contains EGF, insulin and
dexamethasone. The basal media contains ingredients including cholesterol,
hypoxanthine, and linolic acid [2].

Given our current ACF media contains EGF, FGFb, insulin, and hypoxanthine, E8
9C might support fibroblast growth extremely well. I hypothesise that further
optimisation of this media for fibroblast growth in the future is likely to
allow us to reduce the amounts of growth factors and expensive ingredients in
the media, given that fibroblasts are a much hardier cell type than MuSCs.  

In the interest of trialing a few different serum-free medias, we will test
E89C media as well as a serum-containing control. In addition, we will use E8
media with 150mg/L albumin, given that albumin makes up approximately 80% of
the protein content of serum [3].

In addition, we want to test E8 media with 150mg/L albumin + 15ng/mL PDGF +
7nM IGF1 + protease inhibitors + concentrated lipids. The purpose of the
albumin is the same as stated above. 15-20 ng/mL PDGF is reported to maximally
enhance fibroblast proliferation [4]. 7nM IGF1 is reported to enhance
proliferation by a variety of immortalised and primary fibroblasts [5]. The
addition of protease inhibitors could be used to encourage anchorage of cells
to the gelatin-coated flasks, even int he absence of serum proteins which help
facilitate anchorage [6]. In addition, including concentrated lipids is likely
important for fibroblast growth given that our serum-free media currently
contains no additional fatty acids, which are present in serum, and exogenous
fatty acids are important for membrane development in proliferating
fibroblasts [7].

In the future, looking at IGF2 with TGFb for formation of fibroblast
aggregates might be interesting, given the cross-talk between these two
proteins' signalling pathways [8].

  

1\. https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/technical-
documents/protocols/biology/fibroblast-cell-
culture.html#:~:text=Fibroblast%20Growth%20Medium%20is%20a,well%20as%20fibroblast%20cell%20lines.

2\. https://diagnocine.com/Product/HFDM1-Medium-Synthetic-medium-for-human-
fibroblast/53104

3\. https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphys.2014.00299/full

4\. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1698792/

5\. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00210-010-0561-2

6.https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/002432059290590L

7. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5510604/

8\. https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0225422

  

  


