Introduction:


Creatine is composed of three amino acids (methionine, glycine, and arginine)
and is known to provide an instantaneous source of energy for contraction in
high energy demanding tissues such as skeletal muscle. Given its abundance in
skeletal muscle tissue (Harris, R. C. et al., 1997), creatine supplementation
has been used in the treatment of muscular, neurological and neurodegenerative
diseases, as well as a sport performance enhancer. Moreover, it is well
studied that under heating conditions (ie. cooking) creatine turns easily into
creatinine contributing to the flavour development of meat. For its health
benefits as well as its role in the sensory experience of meat, we are
interested in detecting creatine in our cells.


Aim/Purpose


The aim of this study is to develop a robust pipeline to quantify creatine in
our cell samples in house. This will be achieved via the implementation of
three methods of analysis, crude protein measurement by bradford assay,
creatine measurements by ELISA interpolating the absorbance of our samples at
570 nm in a standard curve created by plotting the absorbance at 570 nm of a
standard containing a known concentration of creatine, and finally creatinine
measurement determined by a coupled enzyme reaction, which results in a
colorimetric (570 nm)/fluorometric (λex = 535em/λ = 587 nm) product,
proportional to creatinine present.  


Hypothesis:


The creatine assay kit is sensitive to accurately detect changes in absorbance
at 570 nm with changes in the concentration of creatine in our standard serial
dilution. A standard curve will be established by plotting the absorbance
values of the standard serial dilution at 570nm versus the known concentration
of our standard. This will allow us to further determine the concentration of
creatine in our samples by interpolating their absorbance values at 570 nm in
the curve.  
  
By implementing bradford assays we will be able to report creatine content of
our cells calculated as a a percentage of crude protein.  
  
We will be able to indicate creatine half life in our cells by monitoring
creatinine concentration in our samples (the break down product of creatine).  
  
  
  
  


Timeline and protocol:


Creatine ELISA assay  
  
In this assay, creatine is enzymatically converted to sarcosine which is then
specifically oxidised to generate a product that converts a colorless probe to
an intensely red color (λmax = 570nm), and highly fluorescent (Ex/Em = 538/587
nm) product.

  

Image 1: Summary of the reactions that takes place to quantify creatine in
cell samples according to Abcam Creatine Assay Kit (ab65339). 'Pac-man' shapes
refer to the main molecules involved in the reaction, oval shapes refer to the
enzymes involved in the reaction, and circle shapes refer to additional
molecules produced/required by the reaction. This image has been adapted from
the figure published in an article written by Shen et al., (2021), with
additional information from a paper written by Yamkamon et al., (2018).

In order to validate this test we will need to use the creatine standard to
obtain a reliable calibration and standard curve, as well as real samples with
a known concentration of creatine. For example, it would be interesting to
make some serial dilutions of known concentrations of creatine diluting our in
house stock of creatine in BSA or just buffer and test weather the
interpolation in the standard curve gives us accurate concentration readings.
We could also use our in house stock of creatinine as a negative control. It
would also be interesting to test this out using cell samples.

Protocol

1. REAGENT PREPARATION

1.1 Creatine Assay Buffer: Ready to use as supplied. Equilibrate to room
temperature before use. Store at 4°C or -20°C.

1.2 Creatine Probe - in DMSO: Ready to use as supplied. Store at -20°C
protected from light and moisture. Aliquot probe so that you have enough
volume to perform the desired number of assays. Warm the thawed aliquot by
placing in a 37°C bath for 1 - 5 minutes to thaw the DMSO solution before use.
NOTE: DMSO tends to be solid when stored at -20°C, even when left at room
temperature, so it needs to melt for few minutes at 37°C. Once probe is
thawed, use within two months. Keep the thawed aliquot on ice while performing
the assay.

1.3 Creatinase: Reconstitute in 220 µL Assay Buffer. Aliquot enzyme so that
you have enough volume to perform the desired number of assays. Freeze/thaw
should be limited to one time. Store at -20°C. Keep the thawed aliquot on ice
while performing the assay.

1.4 Creatine Enzyme Mix: Reconstitute in 220 µL Assay Buffer. Aliquot enzyme
so that you have enough volume to perform the desired number of assays.
Freeze/thaw should be limited to one time. Store at -20°C. Keep the thawed
aliquot on ice while performing the assay.

1.5 Creatine Standard:  Reconstitute the Creatine Standard (10 µmol) in 100 µL
of ddH2O to generate a 100 nmol/µL standard stock solution. Make sure it is
completely dissolved. Store at -20°C. Aliquot standard so that you have enough
volume to perform the desired number of assays. Use within 2 months. Keep the
thawed aliquot on ice while performing the assay.

2\. STANDARD PREPARATION

Always prepare a fresh set of standards for every use. Diluted standard
solution is unstable and must be used within 4 hours.

2.1 Prepare 500 µL of 1 nmol/µL Creatine standard by diluting 5 µL of the
reconstituted standard with 495 µL of Assay Buffer. Using 1 nmol/µL Creatine
standard, prepare standard curve dilution as described in the table in a
microplate or microcentrifuge tubes:

Table 1: Standard curve sample preparation.

3\. SAMPLE PREPARATION

We recommend performing several dilutions of your sample to ensure the
readings are within the standard value range.

3.1 Harvest the amount of cells necessary for each assay (initial
recommendation = 2 x 10^6 cells).

3.2 Wash cells with cold PBS.

3.3 Resuspend cells in 100 µL of Assay Buffer.

3.4 Homogenize cells quickly by running 3 cycles of Shaleen's freeze-thaw
protocol. To further guarantee homogeneous cell lysis, pipet up and down a few
times.

3.5 Centrifuge sample for 2 - 5 minutes at at top speed using a
microcentrifuge to remove any insoluble material (the protocol says the
microcentrifuge must be cold- set at 4°C- however, we don't have this. Perhaps
we could do the homogenisation and centrifugation two or three times to
compensate for this).

3.6 Collect supernatant and transfer to a clean tube.

3.7 Keep on ice.

3.8 Add ice cold PCA (perchloric acid) 4 M to a final concentration of 1 M in
the homogenate solution and vortex briefly to mix well.

3.9 Incubate on ice for 5 minutes.

3.10 Centrifuge samples at 13,000 x g for 2 minutes at 4°C in a cold
centrifuge and transfer supernatant to a fresh tube. Measure volume of
supernatant.

3.11 Precipitate excess PCA by adding ice-cold 2 M KOH that equals 34% of the
supernatant to your sample (for instance, 34 µL of 2 M KOH to 100 µL sample)
and vortexing briefly. This will neutralise the sample and precipitate excess
PCA.

3.12 After neutralisation, it is very important that pH equals 6.5 - 8 (use pH
paper to test 1 µL of sample). Any left over PCA will interfere with the
assay. If necessary, adjust pH with 0.1 M KOH.

3.13 Centrifuge at 13,000 x g for 15 minutes at 4°C and collect supernatant.
Samples are now deproteinized, neutralized and PCA has been removed. The
samples are now ready to use in the assay.

3.14 The deproteinized samples will be diluted from the original
concentration. To calculate the dilution factor of your final sample, simply
apply the following formula:

% original concentration = Initial sample volume / (initial sample volume +
vol PCA + vol KOH)

For 100 uL samples (THIS SHOULD BE OUR AIM): % original concentration = 100uL
/ (100 uL + 25uL (PCA) + 34uL (KOH))= 62.89%

4\. ASSAY PROCEDURE AND DETECTION

It is recommended to assay all standards, controls and samples in duplicate.

4.1 Set up Reaction wells:

\- Standard wells = 50 µL standard dilutions.

\- Sample wells = 0 - 50 µL samples (adjust volume to have 50 µL/well with
Assay Buffer).

\- Background control sample wells = 0 - 50 µL samples (adjust volume to 50
µL/well with Assay Buffer). Sarcosine creates background in this assay. If
there is no significant background seen during the pilot assay, it is not
essential to run background controls for every sample. (OPTIONAL)

Image 2: Plate layout for the performance of the assay.

4.2 Reaction Mix (COLORIMETRIC ASSAY):

Prepare 50 µL of Reaction Mix / well.

Prepare a master mix of the Reaction Mix to ensure consistency. We recommend
the following calculation: X µL component x (Number samples + standards +
background control samples +1 (excess))

Table 2: Volumes of each reagent necessary to prepare the Reaction Mix
necessary to obtain a final reaction volume of 50 uL/well.

4.3 Add 50 µL of appropriate Reaction Mix to standard and sample wells.

4.4 Mix well. Incubate at 37°C for 60 minutes protected from light.

4.5 Measure output on a microplate reader. Colorimetric assay: measure OD 570
nm.

Link to protocol:
https://www.abcam.com/ps/products/65/ab65339/documents/Creatine-assay-
protocol-book-v3c-ab65339%20(website).pdf




Bradford assay for crude protein analysis  
  
LA template




Creatinine assay (ordered 18/02/22)  
  
Pulled protocol from here:
https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/deepweb/assets/sigmaaldrich/product/documents/347/954/mak080bul.pdf  
  

Procedure

All samples and standards should be run in duplicate.

Creatinine Standards for Colorimetric Detection

1\. Dilute 10 uL of the 100 mM (100 nmole/uL) Creatinine Standard Solution
with 990 uL of Creatinine Assay

Buffer to prepare a 1 mM (1 nmole/uL) standardsolution.  
  
2\. Add 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 uL of the 1 mM Creatinine standard solution into a
96 well plate, generating

0 (blank), 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 nmole/well standards.  
  
3\. Add Creatinine Assay Buffer to each well to bring the volume to 50 uL.

  
Creatinine Standards for Fluorometric Detection

1\. Dilute 10 uL of the 100 mM (100 nmole/uL) Creatinine Standard Solution
with 990 uL of Creatinine Assay

Buffer to prepare a 1 mM (1 nmole/uL) standard solution.  
  
2\. Dilute 10 uL of the 1 mM standard solution with 90 uL of water to generate
a 0.1 mM

(0.1 nmole/uL).  
  
3\. Add 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 uL of the 0.1 mM Creatinine standard solution into a
96 well plate,

generating 0 (blank), 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and1.0 nmole/well standards.  
  
4\. Add Creatinine Assay Buffer to each well to bring the volume to 50 uL.

Sample Preparation

1\. Tissue (10 mg) or cells (2 x 106) should be rapidly homogenized in 4
volumes of cold Creatinine Assay

buffer.  
  
2\. Centrifuge at 13,000 x g for 10 minutes at 4'C to remove insoluble
material.  
  
NOTE:  
  
High concentrations of proteins may interfere with the assay and should be
removed with a 10 kDa MWCO spin filter. The soluble fraction may be assayed
directly.

Serum samples may be deproteinized with a 10 kD MWCO spin filter. The soluble
fraction may be assayed directly.

3\. Bring samples to a final volume of 50 uL with Creatinine Assay Buffer.

NOTE For unknown samples, it is suggested to test several sample dilutions to
ensure the readings are within the linear range of the standard
curve.Sarcosine and creatine present in the sample cangenerate background. To
control for sarcosine and creatine background, include a blank sample for
eachsample by omitting the Creatininase in the Reaction Mix.

Compounds in the sample may interfere with the assay. To test for
interference, samples can be spiked with a known amount of creatinine (1-10
nmoles) and compared to unspiked samples to ensure readings are accurate.

Assay Reaction

1. Set up the Reaction Mixes according to the scheme in Table 1. 50 UL of the appropriate Reaction Mix is required for each reaction (well).

Table 1.

2\. Add 50 UL of the appropriate Reaction Mix to eachof the wells. Mix well
using a horizontal shaker or  
by pipetting, and incubate the reaction for 60 minutes at 37'C. Protect the
plate from light  
during the incubation.  
3. For colorimetric assays, measure the absorbanceat 570 nm (A570). For fluorometric assays, measure  
fluorescence intensity (ex = 535/em = 587 nm).

3

Results

Calculations

The background for the assays is the value obtained for

the 0 (blank) Creatinine Standard. Correct for the

background by subtracting the 0 (blank) value from all

readings. Background values can be significant and

must be subtracted from all readings. Use the values

obtained from the appropriate Creatinine standards to

plot a standard curve.

Note: A new standard curve must be set up each time

the assay is run.

Subtract the blank sample value from the sample

reading to obtain the corrected measurement. Using the

corrected measurement, the amount of creatinine

present in the sample may be determined from the

standard curve

Concentration of Creatinine

Sa/Sv = C

Sa = Amount of Creatinine in unknown sample (nmole)

from standard curve

Sv = Sample volume (L) added into the wells

C = Concentration of Creatinine in sample

Creatinine molecular weight: 113.12 g/mole

Sample Calculation

Amount of Creatinine (Sa) = 5.84 nmole

(from standard curve)

Sample volume (Sv ) = 50 L

Concentration of Creatinine in sample

5.84 nmole/50 L = 0.1168 nmole/L

0.1168 nmole/L  113.12 ng/nmole= 13.21 ng/L


References


Harris, R. C., et al. "The concentration of creatine in meat, offal and
commercial dog food." Research in veterinary science 62.1 (1997): 58-62.

Shen, Hailan, Kena Chen, and Ju Cao. "A new method for anti‐negative
interference of calcium dobesilate in serum creatinine enzymatic analysis."
Journal of clinical laboratory analysis 35.9 (2021): e23928.

Yamkamon, Vichanan, et al. "Development of sarcosine quantification in urine
based on enzyme-coupled colorimetric method for prostate cancer diagnosis."
EXCLI journal 17 (2018): 467.


