

B12 concentrations to try:

\- Literature used 1M cells in suspension and added different conc of B12
(1ng, 5ng and 20ng B12 per 1M cells), so if we adapt this to our T175 platform
and seed densities we can calculate the B12 needed per mL of culture media for
each concentration.

\- 4xT175 seeded with F_CHOMP07 fibroblasts @7500 cells/cm2 = 1,312,500 cells
per T175 flask seeded.

Therefore, if we use the cell seed # as the basis of the B12 values, we need
1.3125 x 1ng, 5ng and 20ng per T175 flask upon seeding and on each media
change thereafter.

Total volume of GM per T175 flask to be used (in all flasks) = 30 mL

Conc # 1 = 1.3125 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.04375 ng/mL in this media stock -
rounded to 0.05 ng/mL) 75mL

Conc # 2 = 6.5625 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.21875 ng/mL in this media stock \-
rounded to 0.25 ng/mL) 75mL

Conc # 3 = 26.25 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.875 ng/mL in this media stock \-
rounded to 0.9 ng/mL) 75mL

Conc # 4 = 0 ng B12 per T175 flask (0 ng/mL in this media stock)

  

Notes on stock preparation of B12:

We need 90 ng B12 for this whole experiment. If we make up a stock of B12 that
is 1000,000x concentrated, we will be weighing in the mg range (a million
times more than we need). We cannot weigh ng accurately, so must make a way
more concentrated stock to draw from. A two-stage dilution process is required
due to the extremely small quantities of B12 needed.

Initial stock:

10 mg (0.01 g) weighed out and solubilised in 10 mL MilliQ water (1mg/mL stock
concentration). This is a 1,000,000 ng/mL stock.

Working stock:

Dilute the 1,000,000 ng/mL initial stock in plain DMEM/F12 to make the working
stock. Dilute 0.01 mL of initial stock in 9.990 mL DMEM/F12 (1 in 10,000
dilution) to make a working stock of 100 ng/mL

Amount required per group:

Conc # 1 = 1.3125 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.05 ng/mL) 75mL = 2000x dilution of
working stock (75/2000) = 0.0375mL into 74.9625mL complete GM

Conc # 2 = 6.5625 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.25 ng/mL) 75mL = 400x dilution of
working stock (75/400) = 0.1875mL into 74.8125mL complete GM

Conc # 3 = 26.25 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.9 ng/mL) 75mL = 111.11x dilution of
working stock (75/111.11) = 0.675mL into 74.325mL complete GM

Conc # 4 = 0 ng B12 per T175 flask (0 ng/mL in this media stock)


Introduction


Cell Culture:

"The expression of TCblR is linked to the cell cycle with highest expression
in actively proliferating cells."

"Cells were cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's minimal essential medium
(DMEM) with 10% fetal bovine serum (Hyclone), 2 mM Glutamax (Gibco) and 50
units/ml penicillin with 50 μg/ml streptomycin (Invitrogen)"

"Binding and uptake of TC-Cbl was determined by incubating 10^6 cells with
10,000 CPM [ 57Co]Cbl (30 pg = 0.022pmoles) bound to TC in 1 ml medium at 37
◦C for 1 h."

"For measuring the uptake of TC-Cbl, internalization of TCblR-TC-Cbl complex
and reappearance of internalized TCblR, cells (5-10 × 106 ) were incubated in
serum-free DMEM in a humidified 5% CO2 incubator for 1 h at 37 ◦C with excess
TC-Cbl (1 ng of Cbl bound to TC = 0.74pmoles) that was not radiolabeled to
induce uptake and internalization. Cells were washed twice with 1 ml of HBSS
to remove residual TC-Cbl and then incubated in serum-free DMEM at 37 ◦C for
10-60 min."

  

Source: https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/secure.notion-
static.com/254b3364-c5d5-4c75-946e-6cb5aabfa823/1-s2.0-S001448272030505X-main.pdf?X-Amz-
Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Content-Sha256=UNSIGNED-PAYLOAD&X-Amz-
Credential=AKIAT73L2G45EIPT3X45%2F20220204%2Fus-
west-2%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20220204T022841Z&X-Amz-
Expires=86400&X-Amz-
Signature=c599875b7c94540be92463a8e5483d935f43675f1ffc13077ab0c821240c1cb5&X-Amz-
SignedHeaders=host&response-content-
disposition=filename%20%3D%221-s2.0-S001448272030505X-main.pdf%22&x-id=GetObject


Aim:


Pump CHOMP cells full of B12 during proliferation


Hypothesis:


If we expose cells to media conditioned with B12 during their highly
proliferative phase, we may see increased uptake due to high expression of
TCblR (TransCobalamin Receptor)


Timeline and protocol:


  1. Prepare a working stock of B12 in GM, sterile-filter (or whatever can be weighed in and serially diluted)
    1. A two-stage dilution process is required due to the extremely small quantities of B12 needed.

Stage 1: Initial stock

100 mg (0.1 g) weighed out and solubilised in 100 mL MilliQ water (1mg/mL
stock concentration). This is a 1,000,000 ng/mL stock.

Stage 2: Working stock

Dilute the 1,000,000 ng/mL initial stock in plain DMEM/F12 to make the working
stock. Dilute 50 uL of initial stock in 49.95 mL DMEM/F12 (1 in 10,000
dilution) to make a working stock of 100 ng/mL

  2. Prepare B12-containing media for duration of the experiment:
    1. Total volume of GM per T175 flask to be used (in all flasks) = 30 mL
    2. Complete GM = DMEM/F12 + 20% FBS
    3. Conc # 1 = 1.3125 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.05 ng/mL) 75mL = 2000x dilution of working stock (75/2000) = 0.0375mL into 74.9625mL complete GM

Conc # 2 = 6.5625 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.25 ng/mL) 75mL = 400x dilution of
working stock (75/400) = 0.1875mL into 74.8125mL complete GM

Conc # 3 = 26.25 ng B12 per T175 flask (0.9 ng/mL) 75mL = 111.11x dilution of
working stock (75/111.11) = 0.675mL into 74.325mL complete GM

Conc # 4 = 0 ng B12 per T175 flask (0 ng/mL in this media stock) - make 100 mL
total of complete media for the control group and for use in resuspending the
freshly thawed vial of cells.

  3. Aliquot 30mL of each of the media types made in the step above and warm them in a water bath at 30C for 20 minutes prior to use in the next step. Label each aliquot with the group # from above to tell them apart easily.
    1. prepare 2x aliquots of B12-free GM for flasks 4 and 5
  4. Thaw 1x cryovial (10M cells per vial) and quickly transfer into a larger GM volume
    1. e.g. 10 mL of warm GM for a cell conc. of 1M/mL
  5. Perform a cell count and record live and dead cell #'s.
    1. Calculate live cells/mL
  6. Seed the flasks for each group with 1,312,500 live cells/mL (this is equivalent to 7500 live cells/cm2). Place the seeded flasks directly into the 30C incubator (do not leave them in the BSC for 30 minutes).
  7. On day 4, perform a 100% media change using the remaining aliquot of media for each group.
    1.  At this stage, also switch the media in flask 4 to Media formulation 2
  8. On day 7, harvest cells and count the cells from each flask with trypan blue individually to assess cell survival and infer a proliferation rate via total cell number (compared to how many cells were seeded). Record for each B12 concentration condition total cell number, number of dead cells. Note - live cells do not take up Trypan Blue, but dead cells are permeable and take up the dye.
  9. Wash pellet 3x with ice cold PBS (IMPORTANT: to remove any unbound B12 and reduce assay background!!!)
  10. Freeze dry pellet at -80C until analysis


