

## Completed by: LL




We currently grow our CHOMP fibroblast lines in medium containing 20% FBS.
This ingredient is incredibly expensive, generates a lot of ethical issues,
and prevents us from producing a product made in entirely animal-component-
free (ACF) growth medium. Cells are typically adapted to ACF growth medium in
one of two methods: direct or sequential adaptation. Direct adaptation
involves changing cultures to 100% ACF medium in one step. Sequential
adaptation involves gradually decreasing the concentration of serum-containing
medium in the culture, while simultaneously increasing the concentration of
ACF medium. An example of the steps of a sequential adaptation is shown below
in Table 1 [1].

Table 1: An example of the steps involved in a sequential adaptation to
SFM/ACF medium

Nuvonis is a biotech company that develops cells for vaccine and vector
production with no animal components in their medium or reagents. Vow recently
acquired two Quail cell lines from Nuvonis (1 x suspension and 1 x adherent)
and has also received the recipe for the growth medium of these cells. Given
that crocodiles are more closely related to birds than mammals [2], it would
follow that CHOMP fibroblasts will be more amenable to adapting to the
adherent quail fibroblast growth medium than media developed for mammalian
cell lines (we have previously tested CHOMP with KSR as a replacement for FBS
with poor results [3]). The composition of the ACF medium we will be testing
is Opti Pro SFM + 4mM GlutaMax [4].








References

[1] https://www.thermofisher.com/au/en/home/references/protocols/cell-
culture/serum-protocol/adaptation-of-cell-cultures-to-a-serum-free-medium.html

[2] https://news.ucsc.edu/2014/12/crocodile-
genomes.html#:~:text=Crocodiles%20are%20the%20closest%20living,gave%20rise%20to%20the%20dinosaurs.

[3] https://au-
mynotebook.labarchives.com/share/Vow%2520-%2520Team%2520Science/NjY2NS4xfDEwNjMxNy81MTI3L1RyZWVOb2RlLzQyMjY0OTMxNHwxNjkxOS4x

[4] Tech Transfer Protocol linked below


