Introduction


Determination of carnosine is typically based on labour consuming
chromatographic methods (Crush, 1970) or on automatic analyses, which require
expensive apparatus and complicated preparation of samples (Christman, 1976;  
Suyama et al., 1970; Tamaki et al., 1978). However, Wolos et al.,1986
published an interesting method for measuring carnosine content using a
colorimetiric assay. This assay can be set up in house and has applicability
beyond just Carnosine (e.g. for measurement of other nutrients such as
tryptophan).


Aim


To quantify carnosine in our cells.


Hypothesis


The 'O-Phthalic Aldehyde method',colormetric assay will be sensitive enough to
accurately detect changes in carnosine content in our cells. Through the use
of a standard serial dilution of carnosine we will be able to determine the
concentration of creatine in our samples by interpolating their absorbance
values at 640 nm.  
  
Cells grown in media supplemented with B-Alanine will have a higher
concentration of intracellular creatine.


Protocol


Protocol has been adapted from protocols by Wolos et al.,1986 and Lenney et
al., 1982. Adapted by EH.  
  
  

Reagents to prepare prior to start

25% trichloroacetic acid (TCA)  
Add 25g of TCA (>99%) to 100mls of stirring dH2O

200mls of 5% TCA in distilled water Add 10g of TCA (>99%) into 200mls of dH2O.

Mix well and label

  

1 millimolar working stock of carnosine

Add 22.6 mg of carnosine into 100 mL of ****5% TCA water = a 1000x conc
working stock (1 millimolar)

  

0.2% o-phthalic aldehyde prepared in 95% ethanol/methanol

Pipette 40ul of o-phthalic aldehyde into 19.96ml of ethanol

Mix well and label

  

1N NaOH

Add 4 grams of NaOH to 100mls of dH2O while stirring, then sterile filter

Label

  

1N HCl

Add 8.33mL in 100 L of dH2O water, mix well, sterile filter

Label

  

Decision on standard concentration range:

In the paper by Wolos et al., the breast and leg muscles of 18 month Geese
contained around 0.4 umol/g of carnosine. Seeing as the samples are 5% TCA we
also need to prepare the standard in 5% TCA.

We can expect 2 T175 flasks to contain about 0.0328g of cells.

If 2xT175 equals 0.033 g, then that would mean 0.033g x 0.4 umol/g =  0.0132
umol of Carnosine in those cells

So if the carnosine content in our cells matched that of muscle we would see
0.0132 umol in 2x T175 worth of cells. Considering we will expect less
carnosine per g than pure muscle we want a standard curve that will capture a
low range of carnosine.

Range chosen for standard: 0-0.1 umol of carnosine

  

Preparation of the standard:

The amount of carnosine needed to prepare 0.16 umol solution is too small so
we need to first making a working stock solution (see above).

  1. Add 50 uL of the working stock carnosine solution to 50 mL of 5% TCA water to get to a 1 micromolar solution.
  2. Next take 1ml of the 1umol sol and add to 9ml of 5% TCA water to get to a 0.1umol sol.
  3. Prepare 7 tubes containing 1ml each 5% TCA water label with concentrations as below
  4. Remove 500ul of the 0.1 uM solution of carnosine in 5% TCA water (mix before removing) and add to the tube labelled 0.05 umol
  5. Continue as shown in diagram below:
  6. Blank is 5% TCA water only

* * *

  

    
    
          

Sample prep:

  1. Freeze thaw cell pellets (10 tubes) from each concentration 2x
  2. Homogenise cells (pipette up and down) with triple volume of distilled water (same volume in each tube)
  3. Using 25% trichloroacetic acid (TCA) get cell homogenate in water to a concentration of 5% TCA
  4. Spin cell homogenate or leave to settle so that a supernatent is apparent

Running the assay:

  1. For each tube of both sample and standard remove 0.1ml (take supernatent for the cell samples, and mixed solution for the standards) and add to 2.4ml of 1N NaOH in a fresh well labelled tube

  2. Wait 5 min at RT

  3. Add 1ml of 0.2% o-phthalic aldehyde to each tube.

  4. Wait 1 min

  5. Add 0.2ml of 1N HCl to each tube.

  6. Leave solution at 20-22'C for 30min (a blue colour indicative of carnosine should appear - especially in the standards!)

  7. Pipette 50ul of each sample and standard solutions (mix well before pipetting) into the appropriate wells of a 96wp (see plate map below). Samples to be tested in triplicate.

  8. Measure absorption of plate at 640nm on the plate reader

  9. Use standard curve to determine creatine concentration in the samples

NOTE - Carnosine standard should be in order of highest to lowest conc  
e.g. B1,C1,D1 = 5 umol/ml B11,C11,D11 = 0.078 umol/ml

  
  

    
    
                                              

  

  

  

  


