  
  
26/10/21

Ellen e-mailed to say they would have some more samples, and that Christopher
O'Keeffe <chris@vowfood.com> & Kylie Kong <kylie@vowfood.com> would be in
touch with more details.

Chris then said: In a nutshell what Kylie and I are tryting to find out is how
different animal`s muscle cells differ in terms of proteomic profile, also
lipidomics and other interesting assays you might have in your arsenal. We are
also looking at comparing this data to the dataset you sent us recently for
fibroblast cells.




2/11/21

Chris dropped off 5 samples:

1\. P001 Approx 0.5g of frozen sheep cells (Dolly12 Myoblast) from the -80
freezer

2\. P002 Approx 0.5g of frozen mouse cells (C2C12 differentiated) from the -80
freezer

3\. P003 Approx 0.5g of frozen lamb backstrap tissue from the -80 freezer

4\. P004 V2 mince (store bought sample, flash frozen, mostly soy protein, but
also contains vegetable oils (tocopherol).

5\. P005 Store bought sample, 'sheep biopsy 20/2/20', flash frozen




Samples received 2/11/2021

Chris dropped them to reception

Placed in -30 deg freezer 2nd bottom shelf




4/11/21 Proteomics

SampleAmountAmount of U/T addedHomogenisation typeAmount of cold acetone added  
1\. P001 frozen sheep cells (Dolly12 Myoblast)  100 mg200 uLProbe sonication
x2800 uL  
2\. P002 frozen mouse cells (C2C12 differentiated) 100 mg200 uLProbe
sonication x2  
800 uL  
3\. P003 frozen lamb backstrap tissue 200 mg700 uLHand held homogeniser (omni
2000) + probe sonication1600 uL  
4\. P004 V2 mince 200 mg700 uLHand held homogeniser (omni 2000) + probe
sonication  
1600 uL  
  
5\. P005 Sheep Biopsy~250 mg700 uLHand held homogeniser (omni 2000) + probe
sonication  
1600 uL  
  
  
Samples were partitioned and U/T was added. Samples 1 & 2 were homogenised
through probe sonication while samples 3-5 were through a hand held
homogeniser and a probe sonication. Following homogenisation, samples were
centrifuged at 14, 000 g for 15 min at 4 degrees and the supernatant was
extracted. Cold acetone was added to the supernatant, vortexed and incubated
overnight at -30 degrees.




Precipitated protein was pelleted, supernatant removed and dried.

400uL Urea/Thiourea added to resolubolise.

QUBIT Results

Sample Name  
Concentration (mg/mL)  
Total (mg in 400uL)  
  
P0016.6026.4  
P0026.2525.0  
P0033.4514.0  
P0041.205.0  
P0053.9016.0  
  
Samples were diluted and normalised to a concentration of 1 ug/uL in 25 uL in
U/T buffer.8/11/21

DTT was added (2.5 uL, 100 mM, in 50 mM AmBic) and the samples were incubated
at RT for 45 mins.

IAA was added (2.5 uL, 250 mM, in 50 mM AmBic) and the samples were incubated
at RT in darkness for 30 mins.

DTT was added (5 uL, 100 mM, in 50 mM AmBic) for quenching.

AmBic was added (90 uL, 50 mM) and then trypsin (42 uL, 0.012 ug/uL) and the
samples were incubated overnight at 37 C.

9/11/21

Samples were acidified to approx 1% FA, and approx half was ziptipped (~15
ug), dried and reconstituted into 45 uL loading buffer.

1.2 uL was loaded onto HFX3







P001

P002

P003

P004

P005

  




DT 10/11/2021

Samples ZipTipped again: 1.4ug ZipTipped, eluted in 10uL, r/c in 5uL. 1.2uL
loaded







P001_rpt

P002_rpt

P003_rpt

P004_rpt

P005_rpt

  


