

Immunofluorescence is an analytical technique used primarily on biological
samples in order to detect antigens in cellular contexts using antibodies
specific to that antigen [1][2]. This specificity of an antibody to a cellular
target forms the basis of immunofluorescence and it is an extremely useful
technique that allows researchers to evaluate whether or not cells in a
particular sample express the antigen in question [2]. It can be used to
evaluate the distribution of proteins or other molecules in sample tissue or
specify the location of a particular cell type in a heterogenous population
based on marker proteins or transcription factors those cell express [2].

  

This type of immunofluorescence assay will be used in the context of
fibroblasts to determine if we can detect fibroblasts in both adherent culture
and seeded onto Zein scaffolds. The TE-7 antibody works by reacting with
stratum basal epidermal cells, marking mesodermally derived connective tissue
such as fibroblasts [3][4][5]. A current issue experienced in the Science team
is the inability to obtain a positive stain specific for fibroblasts beyond
the DAPI stain on Zein scaffolds, therefore meaning it's inconclusive to
proclaim that the cells we have seeded onto Zein culture and fixed and stained
are indeed fibroblasts. The TE-7 antibodies currently in use have a species
reactivity with human and mouse fibroblasts, however antibody reactivity with
other mammalian species usually occurs due to physical and chemical
similarities in the target protein/antigen, refereed to in the literature as
an epitope [4][5][6][7]. This suggests in essence that the TE-7 can mark sheep
fibroblasts to some degree despite having a tested species-reactivity for
human and mouse fibroblasts only. Moreover the TE-7 antibody has not been
extensively used and tested by the Science team to stain fibroblasts on Zein
scaffolds. Therefore to address this shortcoming we will be attempting to
asses TE-7 antibody staining for both flask adherent sheep fibroblasts and
sheep fibroblasts seeded onto Zein scaffolds, with mouse fibroblast cells
(MOCHA cells) utilised as a positive control. In addition we will be assessing
two other antibodies in addition to TE-7; vimentin antibody that is already
conjugated with a secondary antibody and vimentin that will require an
independent secondary antibody. Each of these conditions will be trialled in
triplicate, with a negative control including an empty Zein scaffold and empty
adherent culture surface. Moreover common problems such as no signal or weak
signal experienced with antibody staining can occur if the concentration of
the primary antibody is too low, therefore we will be trialling an additional
sample set of adherent and Zein seeded fibroblast scaffolds with a 1:50
dilution of TE-7 antibody [8].



References:

[1] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6918834/

[2] http://www.dspmuranchi.ac.in/pdf/Blog/Immunofluorescence.pdf

[3] https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18071065/

[4] https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31465481/

[5] https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0221762

[6] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2724971/

[7] https://rupress.org/jem/article/168/1/107/49566/Lipooligosaccharides-LOS-
of-Neisseria-gonorrhoeae

[8] https://www.cellsignal.com/learn-and-support/troubleshooting/if-
troubleshooting-guide




