Fibroblasts & MuSC co-culture


Using fibroblasts to produce a collagen network to facilitate increased MuSC
adherence: background.  
  
  
The use of Vitamin C to increase fibroblast aggregates:

Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, has previously been shown to increase
fibroblast adhesion. After fibroblasts were treated for 30 minutes with
Vitamin C, fibroblast adhesion to fibronectin increased by 4.7x [1]. There is
also evidence to that Vitamin C aids in the production of collagen by
fibroblasts. Specifically, Vitamin C acts as a co-factor for the proline and
lysine hydroxylases that stabilise the collagen molecule tertiary structure
and also promotes collagen gene expression. Given that collagen formation int
he skin is mostly carried out by fibroblasts in the dermis, this is why
Vitamin C is thought to be great for skin health and is a component of so many
moisurisers and soaps. In the absence of vitamin C, there is degreased total
synthesis of and decreased crosslinking of collegen. There is also evidence
that Vitamin C increases proliferation and migration of fibroblasts [2].

Based on this previous research, it appears that adding vitamin C could
increase fibroblast collagen production which could be excellent for
facilitating MuSC adherence to scaffolds. We should explore this further in
our co-culture experiments.  
  
In addition, if we are attempting to generate aggregates of fibroblasts for
generation of fibroblast scaffolds for for generation of cell paste for meat
products, then incorporating Vitamin C could increase the collagen
concentration of a fibroblast pellet and affect its texture. In addition, it
could increase proliferation of the fibroblasts or make it more likely that
they will bind together. A concentration of 50ug/mL of Vitamin C has been used
to affect fibroblast collagen production previously and may be a good
concentration to start with [3].

  

The use of TGFb to increase fibroblast aggregation

TGFb is an important mediator of fibrosis (in which connective tissue replaces
normal tissue to the extent that it goes unchecked, leading to considerable
tissue remodelling and the formation of permanent scar tissue). It does so in
part by stimulating the synthesis and assembly of matrix proteins such as
fibronectin and collagen. TGFb also promotes formation of myofibroblasts,
which are activated fibroblasts responsible for the generation of contractile
force [4]. TGFb has also been demonstrated to promote the proliferation,
collagen formation, and differentiation of dermal fibroblasts. It manages this
through up-regulation of miR-21 and the PTEN/AKT signalling pathway [5]. TGFb
is typically produced by immune cells such as macrophages and it stimulates
extracellular matrix production (i.e. collagens and fibronectin) in
fibroblasts directly [6].

Based on this previous research, it seems that TGFb is an additional means by
which we can activate fibroblasts and produce greater amounts of cells as well
as increased extracellular matrix proteins such as collagen and fibronectin.
This could be very useful for facilitating increased adherence of MuSCs to
scaffolds by way of fibroblastic matrix proteins. It also could facilitate
increased adherence and formation of fibroblast aggregates. 10ng/mL is a
concentration of TGFb that has been shown to induce increased collagen
production in fibroblasts [7], so that may be a good place to start
concentration-wise.

  

Increasing the amount of collagen, while decreasing the number of fibroblasts
might be particularly important based on this information from Chris

Cells mechanosense over relatively short distances, roughly the width of an
adjacent cell5; thus, in a tissue, a cell is unlikely to sense mechanical
forces beyond its near neighbor. Cells cultured on top of feeder cells adopt a
phenotype reflecting the stiffness of the feeder layer, consistent with short-
range mechanosensing and suggesting that cell- cell interactions are similar
to cell-matrix interactions. Myoblasts, for example, form striations only when
co-cultured on top of glass-attached myoblasts (with a stiffness of 12-15
kPa), not when on top of a softer layer of glass-attached fibroblasts (2-5
kPa).5

  

1. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17325628/

2. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5579659/  
3. https://rupress.org/jcb/article-pdf/34/1/83/1068361/83.pdf

4. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/art.10621

5. https://www.nature.com/articles/srep32231

6. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-74179-6

7.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5597442/

  




# Bioengineered constructs combined with exercise enhance stem cell-mediated
treatment of volumetric muscle loss

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5481841/

Key take-aways: after having trouble with adhesion to scaffolds, this group
found inclusion of collagen 1 in hydrogels was effective in maintaining MuSC
viability/adhesion. Our fibroblasts theoretically produce a collagen network,
so this paper suggests co-culture with fibroblasts may increase
adhesion/viability of MuSCs.

In addition, co-culture of MuSCs with other muscle resident cells (MRCs) led
to sustained viability of MuSCs. Specifically, endothelial cells are the
critical MRC for this phenomenon. MRCs studied in this report included
fibroadipogenic progenitors (FAPs) and macrophages as well as endothelial
cells. The endothelial cells were also capable of engrafting and contributing
to vasculogenesis. Thus, endothelial cells might be a good 3rd cell type to
isolate.

  




Fibroblasts influence muscle progenitor differentiation and alignment in
contact independent and dependent manners in organized co-culture devices  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3537877/pdf/nihms408273.pdf  
Key takeaway:  Fibroblasts influence muscle progenitor differentiation and
alignment in contact independent and dependent manners in organized co-culture
devicesAs the title indicates, this paper looks at co-culturing fibroblasts
and myoblasts. When fibroblasts and myoblasts were co-cultured in contact
dependent manner they found increased alignment of myoblasts but reduced
muscle cell differentiation. Also they didn't find a significant impact on
myoblast differentiation when using conditioned media from fibroblasts
cultures. It also appears that there needs to be a balance between the right
amount of fibroblast and myoblast cells in that they must be seeded in certain
ratios.

-From Adrian


Endothelial Cells & MuSCs


# Bioengineered constructs combined with exercise enhance stem cell-mediated
treatment of volumetric muscle loss

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5481841/

Key take-aways: Co-culture of MuSCs with other muscle resident cells (MRCs)
led to sustained viability of MuSCs. Specifically, endothelial cells are the
critical MRC for this phenomenon. MRCs studied in this report included
fibroadipogenic progenitors (FAPs) and macrophages as well as endothelial
cells. The endothelial cells were also capable of engrafting and contributing
to vasculogenesis. Thus, endothelial cells might be a good 3rd cell type to
isolate.

  

# A Muscle Stem Cell Support Group: Coordinated Cellular Responses in Muscle
Regeneration

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6075730/

This is a fantastic review of muscle regeneration & the different cell-type
influencing this process. This image shows expansion of different cell types
during the process of muscle regeneration:

  

  

#  

# Muscle Satellite Cells and Endothelial Cells: Close Neighbors and Privileged
Partners

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1838982/

Key findings: Endothelial cell (EC) cultures specifically enhanced MuSC
growth, through production of IGF-1, HGF, bFGF, PDGF-BB, and VEGF. Individual
myogenic cell differentiation is spatiotemporally associated with new vessel
formation via ECs. Bidirectional signaling between ECs and differentiating
MuSCs is likely at work during muscle regeneration.




Important notes for working with endothelial cells:  
  
Google drive link for all previous work done on endothelial cell culture &
isolation:  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZF3KyDbb0iYbhCovtVvmDyz3Gi-
Zz490aGZmSx7CZjs/edit

If working with endothelial cells, we can probably use DMEM/F12+20%FBS+1x PS
as our serum-containing media for starters. Additions such as hEGF,
hydrocortisone, VEGF, hFGF-B, R3-IGF-1, Ascorbic Acid, and/or Heparin may be
added to supplement media if needed, but hopefully these can all be found in
the FBS already and 20% should be more than sufficient.

https://www.labome.com/method/Cell-Culture-Media-A-Review.html




# Understanding mechanobiology in cultured endothelium: A review of the
orbital shaker method

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021915019303636  
Endothelial cells at the edge of the wells exhibit elongation and alignment
whereas cells in the centre are unaligned. Cells at the centre of the well are
also more compliant than those at the edge. Cells at the centre of the well
exhibit increased rates of proliferation  and apoptosis relative to the edge.

-From Chris


Additional tri-culture systems


A triple co-culture method to investigate the effect of macrophages and
fibroblasts on myoblast proliferation and migration  
  
https://www.future-science.com/doi/pdf/10.2144/btn-2017-0100

Key take-away: A significant increase in myoblast proliferation and migration
was observed following coculture with either macrophages or fibroblasts
respectively. However, triple co-culture of macrophages, fibroblasts, and
myoblasts showed that the presence of macrophages prevented fibroblasts from
maintaining this positive effect on myoblast migration. Macrophages, on the
other hand, continued to promote myoblast proliferation whether in the
presence of fibroblasts or not. This triple co-culture system highlights the
significance of multicellular communication in regulating myoblast
proliferation. Katie's note - the increase in myoblast proliferation was
likely driven by LIF/IL-6 or another proinflammatory cytokine  
  


